Rubric items: 6


Item 1: 6 points

The cover page must be presented with the title and the date of completion (+2 pts.). A complete problem description must be given in Chapter 1 (+4 pts.). Deduct points if:

the cover page is not complete (-1)
the introduction is a simple copy + paste of the assignment statement (-3)
the introduction is not very clear -- in this chapter they are supposed to make it clear WHAT is to be done, besides why they are doing it (-1 ~ -2)
others – please specify in the final comments.


Item 2: 12 points

Chapter 2 is supposed to contain the descriptions (pseudo-code preferred) of both methods involved (+5 pts. for each algorithm), plus a sketch of the main program (+2 pts.). Deduct points if:

the algorithm specification is not complete -- they are supposed to specify all the algorithms involved, not only a sketch of the main program (-2 ~ -10)
not making their algorithm easier to understand than a simple program (-2)
only a program + comments, which is not acceptable (-4)
others – please specify in the final comments.


Item 3: 2 points

The overall style of documentation is supposed to be neat and clear. Deduct (at most 2) points if:

the document looks like a patch work (-1)
messy – some of the data in the charts and tables are missing (-1)
the hand-in is not zipped with proper folders (-1)
the hand-in is not complete – some files are missing (-1)
others – please specify in the final comments.


Item 4: 8 points

A complete table of testing data must be given in Chapter 3 (+4 pts. for each method). Deduct points if:

the testing results have a problem: some of the tick numbers are less than 10, which means that their answer is not accurate enough (-1)
the testing results are not complete (-2 ~ -8)
others – please specify in the final comments.


Item 5: 22 points

Plots (+8 pts.) and comments (+4 pts.) on comparisons of the two algorithms are supposed to be given in Chapter 4, together with the analysis of both the time (+5 pts.) and space (+5 pts.) complexities of the algorithms. Deduct points if:

the plot is missing (-8)
there is no comments on analyzing why one algorithm is faster than another (-1 ~ -4)
the plot is misleading since the x-axis is NOT EQUALLY SPACED (-1)
analysis of the complexities of time and/or space is missing -- they must show how they have reached their conclusions, instead of simply listing them (-4 ~ -10)
others – please specify in the final comments.


Item 6: 50 points

The programmer is supposed to implement the two functions (14 pts. each, plus 2 pts. for readability) and a testing program (20 pts.). Deduct points if:

implementation of some of the functions are missing (-14 ~ -30)
the testing program is missing (-20)
some of the programs are not working properly (-1 ~ -20)
the programs are not well-commented (-50)
others – please specify in the final comments.