Title: A Cautious Generalization Goes a Long Way: Learning Morphophonological Rules
Authors: Salam Khalifa, Sarah Payne, Jordan Kodner, Ellen Broselow, Owen Rambow
Abstract: Explicit linguistic knowledge, encoded by resources such as rule-based morphological analyzers, continues to prove useful in downstream NLP tasks, especially for low-resource languages and dialects. Rules are an important asset in descriptive linguistic grammars. However, creating such resources is usually expensive and non-trivial, especially for spoken varieties with no written standard. In this work, we present a novel approach for automatically learning morphophonological rules of Arabic from a corpus. Motivated by classic cognitive models for rule learning, rules are generalized cautiously. Rules that are memorized for individual items are only allowed to generalize to unseen forms if they are sufficiently reliable in the training data. The learned rules are further examined to ensure that they capture true linguistic phenomena described by domain experts. We also investigate the learnability of rules in low-resource settings across different experimental setups and dialects.
Cite (Informal):A Cautious Generalization Goes a Long Way: Learning Morphophonological Rules (Khalifa et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.101
Bibkey:khalifa-etal-2023-cautious
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.101
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.101.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Salam Khalifa, Sarah Payne, Jordan Kodner, Ellen Broselow, and Owen Rambow. 2023. A Cautious Generalization Goes a Long Way: Learning Morphophonological Rules. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 1793–1805, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:1793–1805
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.101
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{khalifa-etal-2023-cautious,
    title = "A Cautious Generalization Goes a Long Way: Learning Morphophonological Rules",
    author = "Khalifa, Salam  and
      Payne, Sarah  and
      Kodner, Jordan  and
      Broselow, Ellen  and
      Rambow, Owen",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.101",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.101",
    pages = "1793--1805",
    abstract = "Explicit linguistic knowledge, encoded by resources such as rule-based morphological analyzers, continues to prove useful in downstream NLP tasks, especially for low-resource languages and dialects. Rules are an important asset in descriptive linguistic grammars. However, creating such resources is usually expensive and non-trivial, especially for spoken varieties with no written standard. In this work, we present a novel approach for automatically learning morphophonological rules of Arabic from a corpus. Motivated by classic cognitive models for rule learning, rules are generalized cautiously. Rules that are memorized for individual items are only allowed to generalize to unseen forms if they are sufficiently reliable in the training data. The learned rules are further examined to ensure that they capture true linguistic phenomena described by domain experts. We also investigate the learnability of rules in low-resource settings across different experimental setups and dialects.",
}
