Title: A Survey on Asking Clarification Questions Datasets in Conversational Systems
Authors: Hossein A. Rahmani, Xi Wang, Yue Feng, Qiang Zhang, Emine Yilmaz, Aldo Lipani
Abstract: The ability to understand a user’s underlying needs is critical for conversational systems, especially with limited input from users in a conversation. Thus, in such a domain, Asking Clarification Questions (ACQs) to reveal users’ true intent from their queries or utterances arise as an essential task. However, it is noticeable that a key limitation of the existing ACQs studies is their incomparability, from inconsistent use of data, distinct experimental setups and evaluation strategies. Therefore, in this paper, to assist the development of ACQs techniques, we comprehensively analyse the current ACQs research status, which offers a detailed comparison of publicly available datasets, and discusses the applied evaluation metrics, joined with benchmarks for multiple ACQs-related tasks. In particular, given a thorough analysis of the ACQs task, we discuss a number of corresponding research directions for the investigation of ACQs as well as the development of conversational systems.
Cite (Informal):A Survey on Asking Clarification Questions Datasets in Conversational Systems (Rahmani et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.152
Bibkey:rahmani-etal-2023-survey
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.152
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.152.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Hossein A. Rahmani, Xi Wang, Yue Feng, Qiang Zhang, Emine Yilmaz, and Aldo Lipani. 2023. A Survey on Asking Clarification Questions Datasets in Conversational Systems. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 2698–2716, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:2698–2716
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.152
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{rahmani-etal-2023-survey,
    title = "A Survey on Asking Clarification Questions Datasets in Conversational Systems",
    author = "Rahmani, Hossein A.  and
      Wang, Xi  and
      Feng, Yue  and
      Zhang, Qiang  and
      Yilmaz, Emine  and
      Lipani, Aldo",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.152",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.152",
    pages = "2698--2716",
    abstract = "The ability to understand a user{'}s underlying needs is critical for conversational systems, especially with limited input from users in a conversation. Thus, in such a domain, Asking Clarification Questions (ACQs) to reveal users{'} true intent from their queries or utterances arise as an essential task. However, it is noticeable that a key limitation of the existing ACQs studies is their incomparability, from inconsistent use of data, distinct experimental setups and evaluation strategies. Therefore, in this paper, to assist the development of ACQs techniques, we comprehensively analyse the current ACQs research status, which offers a detailed comparison of publicly available datasets, and discusses the applied evaluation metrics, joined with benchmarks for multiple ACQs-related tasks. In particular, given a thorough analysis of the ACQs task, we discuss a number of corresponding research directions for the investigation of ACQs as well as the development of conversational systems.",
}
