Title: Augmentation-Adapted Retriever Improves Generalization of Language Models as Generic Plug-In
Authors: Zichun Yu, Chenyan Xiong, Shi Yu, Zhiyuan Liu
Abstract: Retrieval augmentation can aid language models (LMs) in knowledge-intensive tasks by supplying them with external information. Prior works on retrieval augmentation usually jointly fine-tune the retriever and the LM, making them closely coupled. In this paper, we explore the scheme of generic retrieval plug-in: the retriever is to assist target LMs that may not be known beforehand or are unable to be fine-tuned together. To retrieve useful documents for unseen target LMs, we propose augmentation-adapted retriever (AAR), which learns LM’s preferences obtained from a known source LM. Experiments on the MMLU and PopQA datasets demonstrate that our AAR trained with a small source LM is able to significantly improve the zero-shot generalization of larger target LMs ranging from 250M Flan-T5 to 175B InstructGPT. Further analysis indicates that the preferences of different LMs overlap, enabling AAR trained with a single source LM to serve as a generic plug-in for various target LMs. Our code is open-sourced at https://github.com/OpenMatch/Augmentation-Adapted-Retriever.
Cite (Informal):Augmentation-Adapted Retriever Improves Generalization of Language Models as Generic Plug-In (Yu et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.136
Bibkey:yu-etal-2023-augmentation
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.136
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.136.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Zichun Yu, Chenyan Xiong, Shi Yu, and Zhiyuan Liu. 2023. Augmentation-Adapted Retriever Improves Generalization of Language Models as Generic Plug-In. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 2421–2436, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:2421–2436
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.136
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{yu-etal-2023-augmentation,
    title = "Augmentation-Adapted Retriever Improves Generalization of Language Models as Generic Plug-In",
    author = "Yu, Zichun  and
      Xiong, Chenyan  and
      Yu, Shi  and
      Liu, Zhiyuan",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.136",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.136",
    pages = "2421--2436",
    abstract = "Retrieval augmentation can aid language models (LMs) in knowledge-intensive tasks by supplying them with external information. Prior works on retrieval augmentation usually jointly fine-tune the retriever and the LM, making them closely coupled. In this paper, we explore the scheme of generic retrieval plug-in: the retriever is to assist target LMs that may not be known beforehand or are unable to be fine-tuned together. To retrieve useful documents for unseen target LMs, we propose augmentation-adapted retriever (AAR), which learns LM{'}s preferences obtained from a known source LM. Experiments on the MMLU and PopQA datasets demonstrate that our AAR trained with a small source LM is able to significantly improve the zero-shot generalization of larger target LMs ranging from 250M Flan-T5 to 175B InstructGPT. Further analysis indicates that the preferences of different LMs overlap, enabling AAR trained with a single source LM to serve as a generic plug-in for various target LMs. Our code is open-sourced at \url{https://github.com/OpenMatch/Augmentation-Adapted-Retriever}.",
}
