Title: CATS: A Pragmatic Chinese Answer-to-Sequence Dataset with Large Scale and High Quality
Authors: Liang Li, Ruiying Geng, Chengyang Fang, Bing Li, Can Ma, Rongyu Cao, Binhua Li, Fei Huang, Yongbin Li
Abstract: There are three problems existing in the popular data-to-text datasets. First, the large-scale datasets either contain noise or lack real application scenarios. Second, the datasets close to real applications are relatively small in size. Last, current datasets bias in the English language while leaving other languages underexplored.To alleviate these limitations, in this paper, we present CATS, a pragmatic Chinese answer-to-sequence dataset with large scale and high quality. The dataset aims to generate textual descriptions for the answer in the practical TableQA system. Further, to bridge the structural gap between the input SQL and table and establish better semantic alignments, we propose a Unified Graph Transformation approach to establish a joint encoding space for the two hybrid knowledge resources and convert this task to a graph-to-text problem. The experiment results demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method. Further analysis on CATS attests to both the high quality and challenges of the dataset
Cite (Informal):CATS: A Pragmatic Chinese Answer-to-Sequence Dataset with Large Scale and High Quality (Li et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.168
Bibkey:li-etal-2023-cats
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.168
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.168.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Liang Li, Ruiying Geng, Chengyang Fang, Bing Li, Can Ma, Rongyu Cao, Binhua Li, Fei Huang, and Yongbin Li. 2023. CATS: A Pragmatic Chinese Answer-to-Sequence Dataset with Large Scale and High Quality. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 2983–3000, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:2983–3000
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.168
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{li-etal-2023-cats,
    title = "{CATS}: A Pragmatic {C}hinese Answer-to-Sequence Dataset with Large Scale and High Quality",
    author = "Li, Liang  and
      Geng, Ruiying  and
      Fang, Chengyang  and
      Li, Bing  and
      Ma, Can  and
      Cao, Rongyu  and
      Li, Binhua  and
      Huang, Fei  and
      Li, Yongbin",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.168",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.168",
    pages = "2983--3000",
    abstract = "There are three problems existing in the popular data-to-text datasets. First, the large-scale datasets either contain noise or lack real application scenarios. Second, the datasets close to real applications are relatively small in size. Last, current datasets bias in the English language while leaving other languages underexplored.To alleviate these limitations, in this paper, we present CATS, a pragmatic Chinese answer-to-sequence dataset with large scale and high quality. The dataset aims to generate textual descriptions for the answer in the practical TableQA system. Further, to bridge the structural gap between the input SQL and table and establish better semantic alignments, we propose a Unified Graph Transformation approach to establish a joint encoding space for the two hybrid knowledge resources and convert this task to a graph-to-text problem. The experiment results demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method. Further analysis on CATS attests to both the high quality and challenges of the dataset",
}
