Title: CHARD: Clinical Health-Aware Reasoning Across Dimensions for Text Generation Models
Authors: Steven Y. Feng, Vivek Khetan, Bogdan Sacaleanu, Anatole Gershman, Eduard Hovy
Abstract: We motivate and introduce CHARD: Clinical Health-Aware Reasoning across Dimensions, to investigate the capability of text generation models to act as implicit clinical knowledge bases and generate free-flow textual explanations about various health-related conditions across several dimensions. We collect and present an associated dataset, CHARDat, consisting of explanations about 52 health conditions across three clinical dimensions. We conduct extensive experiments using BART and T5 along with data augmentation, and perform automatic, human, and qualitative analyses. We show that while our models can perform decently, CHARD is very challenging with strong potential for further exploration.
Cite (Informal):CHARD: Clinical Health-Aware Reasoning Across Dimensions for Text Generation Models (Feng et al., EACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:EACL
Video:https://aclanthology.org/2023.eacl-main.24.mp4
Anthology ID:2023.eacl-main.24
Bibkey:feng-etal-2023-chard
Volume:Proceedings of the 17th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.eacl-main.24
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.eacl-main.24.pdf
Month:May
SIG:
Address:Dubrovnik, Croatia
Language:
Cite (ACL):Steven Y. Feng, Vivek Khetan, Bogdan Sacaleanu, Anatole Gershman, and Eduard Hovy. 2023. CHARD: Clinical Health-Aware Reasoning Across Dimensions for Text Generation Models. In Proceedings of the 17th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 313–327, Dubrovnik, Croatia. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Andreas Vlachos,Isabelle Augenstein
Note:
Pages:313–327
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.eacl-main.24
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{feng-etal-2023-chard,
    title = "{CHARD}: Clinical Health-Aware Reasoning Across Dimensions for Text Generation Models",
    author = "Feng, Steven Y.  and
      Khetan, Vivek  and
      Sacaleanu, Bogdan  and
      Gershman, Anatole  and
      Hovy, Eduard",
    editor = "Vlachos, Andreas  and
      Augenstein, Isabelle",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 17th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics",
    month = may,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Dubrovnik, Croatia",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.eacl-main.24",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.eacl-main.24",
    pages = "313--327",
    abstract = "We motivate and introduce CHARD: Clinical Health-Aware Reasoning across Dimensions, to investigate the capability of text generation models to act as implicit clinical knowledge bases and generate free-flow textual explanations about various health-related conditions across several dimensions. We collect and present an associated dataset, CHARDat, consisting of explanations about 52 health conditions across three clinical dimensions. We conduct extensive experiments using BART and T5 along with data augmentation, and perform automatic, human, and qualitative analyses. We show that while our models can perform decently, CHARD is very challenging with strong potential for further exploration.",
}
