Title: Cross-Domain Data Augmentation with Domain-Adaptive Language Modeling for Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis
Authors: Jianfei Yu, Qiankun Zhao, Rui Xia
Abstract: Cross-domain Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis (ABSA) aims to leverage the useful knowledge from a source domain to identify aspect-sentiment pairs in sentences from a target domain. To tackle the task, several recent works explore a new unsupervised domain adaptation framework, i.e., Cross-Domain Data Augmentation (CDDA), aiming to directly generate much labeled target-domain data based on the labeled source-domain data. However, these CDDA methods still suffer from several issues: 1) preserving many source-specific attributes such as syntactic structures; 2) lack of fluency and coherence; 3) limiting the diversity of generated data. To address these issues, we propose a new cross-domain Data Augmentation approach based on Domain-Adaptive Language Modeling named DA2LM, which contains three stages: 1) assigning pseudo labels to unlabeled target-domain data; 2) unifying the process of token generation and labeling with a Domain-Adaptive Language Model (DALM) to learn the shared context and annotation across domains; 3) using the trained DALM to generate labeled target-domain data. Experiments show that DA2LM consistently outperforms previous feature adaptation and CDDA methods on both ABSA and Aspect Extraction tasks. The source code is publicly released at https://github.com/NUSTM/DALM. 2 2
Cite (Informal):Cross-Domain Data Augmentation with Domain-Adaptive Language Modeling for Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis (Yu et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.81
Bibkey:yu-etal-2023-cross
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.81
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.81.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Jianfei Yu, Qiankun Zhao, and Rui Xia. 2023. Cross-Domain Data Augmentation with Domain-Adaptive Language Modeling for Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 1456–1470, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:1456–1470
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.81
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{yu-etal-2023-cross,
    title = "Cross-Domain Data Augmentation with Domain-Adaptive Language Modeling for Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis",
    author = "Yu, Jianfei  and
      Zhao, Qiankun  and
      Xia, Rui",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.81",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.81",
    pages = "1456--1470",
    abstract = "Cross-domain Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis (ABSA) aims to leverage the useful knowledge from a source domain to identify aspect-sentiment pairs in sentences from a target domain. To tackle the task, several recent works explore a new unsupervised domain adaptation framework, i.e., Cross-Domain Data Augmentation (CDDA), aiming to directly generate much labeled target-domain data based on the labeled source-domain data. However, these CDDA methods still suffer from several issues: 1) preserving many source-specific attributes such as syntactic structures; 2) lack of fluency and coherence; 3) limiting the diversity of generated data. To address these issues, we propose a new cross-domain Data Augmentation approach based on Domain-Adaptive Language Modeling named DA$^2$LM, which contains three stages: 1) assigning pseudo labels to unlabeled target-domain data; 2) unifying the process of token generation and labeling with a Domain-Adaptive Language Model (DALM) to learn the shared context and annotation across domains; 3) using the trained DALM to generate labeled target-domain data. Experiments show that DA$^2$LM consistently outperforms previous feature adaptation and CDDA methods on both ABSA and Aspect Extraction tasks. The source code is publicly released at \url{https://github.com/NUSTM/DALM}.",
}
