Title: Erasure of Unaligned Attributes from Neural Representations
Authors: Shun Shao, Yftah Ziser, Shay B. Cohen
Abstract: We present the Assignment-Maximization Spectral Attribute removaL (AMSAL) algorithm, which erases information from neural representations when the information to be erased is implicit rather than directly being aligned to each input example. Our algorithm works by alternating between two steps. In one, it finds an assignment of the input representations to the information to be erased, and in the other, it creates projections of both the input representations and the information to be erased into a joint latent space. We test our algorithm on an extensive array of datasets, including a Twitter dataset with multiple guarded attributes, the BiasBios dataset, and the BiasBench benchmark. The latter benchmark includes four datasets with various types of protected attributes. Our results demonstrate that bias can often be removed in our setup. We also discuss the limitations of our approach when there is a strong entanglement between the main task and the information to be erased.1
Cite (Informal):Erasure of Unaligned Attributes from Neural Representations (Shao et al., TACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:TACL
Anthology ID:2023.tacl-1.29
Bibkey:shao-etal-2023-erasure
Volume:Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, Volume 11
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.tacl-1.29
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.tacl-1.29.pdf
Month:
SIG:
Address:Cambridge, MA
Language:
Cite (ACL):Shun Shao, Yftah Ziser, and Shay B. Cohen. 2023. Erasure of Unaligned Attributes from Neural Representations. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 11:488–510.
Note:
Pages:488–510
DOI:10.1162/tacl_a_00558
Publisher:MIT Press
BibTex: @article{shao-etal-2023-erasure,
    title = "Erasure of Unaligned Attributes from Neural Representations",
    author = "Shao, Shun  and
      Ziser, Yftah  and
      Cohen, Shay B.",
    journal = "Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics",
    volume = "11",
    year = "2023",
    address = "Cambridge, MA",
    publisher = "MIT Press",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.tacl-1.29",
    doi = "10.1162/tacl_a_00558",
    pages = "488--510",
    abstract = "We present the Assignment-Maximization Spectral Attribute removaL (AMSAL) algorithm, which erases information from neural representations when the information to be erased is implicit rather than directly being aligned to each input example. Our algorithm works by alternating between two steps. In one, it finds an assignment of the input representations to the information to be erased, and in the other, it creates projections of both the input representations and the information to be erased into a joint latent space. We test our algorithm on an extensive array of datasets, including a Twitter dataset with multiple guarded attributes, the BiasBios dataset, and the BiasBench benchmark. The latter benchmark includes four datasets with various types of protected attributes. Our results demonstrate that bias can often be removed in our setup. We also discuss the limitations of our approach when there is a strong entanglement between the main task and the information to be erased.1",
}
