Title: Facilitating Multi-turn Emotional Support Conversation with Positive Emotion Elicitation: A Reinforcement Learning Approach
Authors: Jinfeng Zhou, Zhuang Chen, Bo Wang, Minlie Huang
Abstract: Emotional support conversation (ESC) aims to provide emotional support (ES) to improve one’s mental state. Existing works stay at fitting grounded responses and responding strategies (e.g., question), which ignore the effect on ES and lack explicit goals to guide emotional positive transition. To this end, we introduce a new paradigm to formalize multi-turn ESC as a process of positive emotion elicitation. Addressing this task requires finely adjusting the elicitation intensity in ES as the conversation progresses while maintaining conversational goals like coherence. In this paper, we propose Supporter, a mixture-of-expert-based reinforcement learning model, and well design ES and dialogue coherence rewards to guide policy’s learning for responding. Experiments verify the superiority of Supporter in achieving positive emotion elicitation during responding while maintaining conversational goals including coherence.
Cite (Informal):Facilitating Multi-turn Emotional Support Conversation with Positive Emotion Elicitation: A Reinforcement Learning Approach (Zhou et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.96
Bibkey:zhou-etal-2023-facilitating
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.96
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.96.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Jinfeng Zhou, Zhuang Chen, Bo Wang, and Minlie Huang. 2023. Facilitating Multi-turn Emotional Support Conversation with Positive Emotion Elicitation: A Reinforcement Learning Approach. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 1714–1729, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:1714–1729
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.96
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{zhou-etal-2023-facilitating,
    title = "Facilitating Multi-turn Emotional Support Conversation with Positive Emotion Elicitation: A Reinforcement Learning Approach",
    author = "Zhou, Jinfeng  and
      Chen, Zhuang  and
      Wang, Bo  and
      Huang, Minlie",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.96",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.96",
    pages = "1714--1729",
    abstract = "Emotional support conversation (ESC) aims to provide emotional support (ES) to improve one{'}s mental state. Existing works stay at fitting grounded responses and responding strategies (e.g., \textit{question}), which ignore the effect on ES and lack explicit goals to guide emotional positive transition. To this end, we introduce a new paradigm to formalize multi-turn ESC as a process of positive emotion elicitation. Addressing this task requires finely adjusting the elicitation intensity in ES as the conversation progresses while maintaining conversational goals like coherence. In this paper, we propose Supporter, a mixture-of-expert-based reinforcement learning model, and well design ES and dialogue coherence rewards to guide policy{'}s learning for responding. Experiments verify the superiority of Supporter in achieving positive emotion elicitation during responding while maintaining conversational goals including coherence.",
}
