Title: FEDLEGAL: The First Real-World Federated Learning Benchmark for Legal NLP
Authors: Zhuo Zhang, Xiangjing Hu, Jingyuan Zhang, Yating Zhang, Hui Wang, Lizhen Qu, Zenglin Xu
Abstract: The inevitable private information in legal data necessitates legal artificial intelligence to study privacy-preserving and decentralized learning methods. Federated learning (FL) has merged as a promising technique for multiple participants to collaboratively train a shared model while efficiently protecting the sensitive data of participants. However, to the best of our knowledge, there is no work on applying FL to legal NLP. To fill this gap, this paper presents the first real-world FL benchmark for legal NLP, coined FEDLEGAL, which comprises five legal NLP tasks and one privacy task based on the data from Chinese courts. Based on the extensive experiments on these datasets, our results show that FL faces new challenges in terms of real-world non-IID data. The benchmark also encourages researchers to investigate privacy protection using real-world data in the FL setting, as well as deploying models in resource-constrained scenarios. The code and datasets of FEDLEGAL are available here.
Cite (Informal):FEDLEGAL: The First Real-World Federated Learning Benchmark for Legal NLP (Zhang et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.193
Bibkey:zhang-etal-2023-fedlegal
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.193
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.193.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Zhuo Zhang, Xiangjing Hu, Jingyuan Zhang, Yating Zhang, Hui Wang, Lizhen Qu, and Zenglin Xu. 2023. FEDLEGAL: The First Real-World Federated Learning Benchmark for Legal NLP. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 3492–3507, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:3492–3507
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.193
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{zhang-etal-2023-fedlegal,
    title = "{FEDLEGAL}: The First Real-World Federated Learning Benchmark for Legal {NLP}",
    author = "Zhang, Zhuo  and
      Hu, Xiangjing  and
      Zhang, Jingyuan  and
      Zhang, Yating  and
      Wang, Hui  and
      Qu, Lizhen  and
      Xu, Zenglin",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.193",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.193",
    pages = "3492--3507",
    abstract = "The inevitable private information in legal data necessitates legal artificial intelligence to study privacy-preserving and decentralized learning methods. Federated learning (FL) has merged as a promising technique for multiple participants to collaboratively train a shared model while efficiently protecting the sensitive data of participants. However, to the best of our knowledge, there is no work on applying FL to legal NLP. To fill this gap, this paper presents the first real-world FL benchmark for legal NLP, coined FEDLEGAL, which comprises five legal NLP tasks and one privacy task based on the data from Chinese courts. Based on the extensive experiments on these datasets, our results show that FL faces new challenges in terms of real-world non-IID data. The benchmark also encourages researchers to investigate privacy protection using real-world data in the FL setting, as well as deploying models in resource-constrained scenarios. The code and datasets of FEDLEGAL are available here.",
}
