Title: FeelingBlue: A Corpus for Understanding the Emotional Connotation of Color in Context
Authors: Amith Ananthram, Olivia Winn, Smaranda Muresan
Abstract: While the link between color and emotion has been widely studied, how context-based changes in color impact the intensity of perceived emotions is not well understood. In this work, we present a new multimodal dataset for exploring the emotional connotation of color as mediated by line, stroke, texture, shape, and language. Our dataset, FeelingBlue, is a collection of 19,788 4-tuples of abstract art ranked by annotators according to their evoked emotions and paired with rationales for those annotations. Using this corpus, we present a baseline for a new task: Justified Affect Transformation. Given an image I, the task is to 1) recolor I to enhance a specified emotion e and 2) provide a textual justification for the change in e. Our model is an ensemble of deep neural networks which takes I, generates an emotionally transformed color palette p conditioned on I, applies p to I, and then justifies the color transformation in text via a visual-linguistic model. Experimental results shed light on the emotional connotation of color in context, demonstrating both the promise of our approach on this challenging task and the considerable potential for future investigations enabled by our corpus.1
Cite (Informal):FeelingBlue: A Corpus for Understanding the Emotional Connotation of Color in Context (Ananthram et al., TACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:TACL
Anthology ID:2023.tacl-1.11
Bibkey:ananthram-etal-2023-feelingblue
Volume:Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, Volume 11
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.tacl-1.11
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.tacl-1.11.pdf
Month:
SIG:
Address:Cambridge, MA
Language:
Cite (ACL):Amith Ananthram, Olivia Winn, and Smaranda Muresan. 2023. FeelingBlue: A Corpus for Understanding the Emotional Connotation of Color in Context. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 11:176–190.
Note:
Pages:176–190
DOI:10.1162/tacl_a_00540
Publisher:MIT Press
BibTex: @article{ananthram-etal-2023-feelingblue,
    title = "{F}eeling{B}lue: A Corpus for Understanding the Emotional Connotation of Color in Context",
    author = "Ananthram, Amith  and
      Winn, Olivia  and
      Muresan, Smaranda",
    journal = "Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics",
    volume = "11",
    year = "2023",
    address = "Cambridge, MA",
    publisher = "MIT Press",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.tacl-1.11",
    doi = "10.1162/tacl_a_00540",
    pages = "176--190",
    abstract = "While the link between color and emotion has been widely studied, how context-based changes in color impact the intensity of perceived emotions is not well understood. In this work, we present a new multimodal dataset for exploring the emotional connotation of color as mediated by line, stroke, texture, shape, and language. Our dataset, FeelingBlue, is a collection of 19,788 4-tuples of abstract art ranked by annotators according to their evoked emotions and paired with rationales for those annotations. Using this corpus, we present a baseline for a new task: Justified Affect Transformation. Given an image I, the task is to 1) recolor I to enhance a specified emotion e and 2) provide a textual justification for the change in e. Our model is an ensemble of deep neural networks which takes I, generates an emotionally transformed color palette p conditioned on I, applies p to I, and then justifies the color transformation in text via a visual-linguistic model. Experimental results shed light on the emotional connotation of color in context, demonstrating both the promise of our approach on this challenging task and the considerable potential for future investigations enabled by our corpus.1",
}
