Title: From the One, Judge of the Whole: Typed Entailment Graph Construction with Predicate Generation
Authors: Zhibin Chen, Yansong Feng, Dongyan Zhao
Abstract: Entailment Graphs (EGs) have been constructed based on extracted corpora as a strong and explainable form to indicate context-independent entailment relation in natural languages. However, EGs built by previous methods often suffer from the severe sparsity issues, due to limited corpora available and the long-tail phenomenon of predicate distributions. In this paper, we propose a multi-stage method, Typed Predicate-Entailment Graph Generator (TP-EGG), to tackle this problem. Given several seed predicates, TP-EGG builds the graphs by generating new predicates and detecting entailment relations among them. The generative nature of TP-EGG helps us leverage the recent advances from large pretrained language models (PLMs), while avoiding the reliance on carefully prepared corpora. Experiments on benchmark datasets show that TP-EGG can generate high-quality and scale-controllable entailment graphs, achieving significant in-domain improvement over state-of-the-art EGs and boosting the performance of down-stream inference tasks.
Cite (Informal):From the One, Judge of the Whole: Typed Entailment Graph Construction with Predicate Generation (Chen et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.196
Bibkey:chen-etal-2023-one
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.196
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.196.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Zhibin Chen, Yansong Feng, and Dongyan Zhao. 2023. From the One, Judge of the Whole: Typed Entailment Graph Construction with Predicate Generation. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 3534–3551, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:3534–3551
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.196
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{chen-etal-2023-one,
    title = "From the One, Judge of the Whole: Typed Entailment Graph Construction with Predicate Generation",
    author = "Chen, Zhibin  and
      Feng, Yansong  and
      Zhao, Dongyan",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.196",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.196",
    pages = "3534--3551",
    abstract = "Entailment Graphs (EGs) have been constructed based on extracted corpora as a strong and explainable form to indicate context-independent entailment relation in natural languages. However, EGs built by previous methods often suffer from the severe sparsity issues, due to limited corpora available and the long-tail phenomenon of predicate distributions. In this paper, we propose a multi-stage method, Typed Predicate-Entailment Graph Generator (TP-EGG), to tackle this problem. Given several seed predicates, TP-EGG builds the graphs by generating new predicates and detecting entailment relations among them. The generative nature of TP-EGG helps us leverage the recent advances from large pretrained language models (PLMs), while avoiding the reliance on carefully prepared corpora. Experiments on benchmark datasets show that TP-EGG can generate high-quality and scale-controllable entailment graphs, achieving significant in-domain improvement over state-of-the-art EGs and boosting the performance of down-stream inference tasks.",
}
