Title: GEC-DePenD: Non-Autoregressive Grammatical Error Correction with Decoupled Permutation and Decoding
Authors: Konstantin Yakovlev, Alexander Podolskiy, Andrey Bout, Sergey Nikolenko, Irina Piontkovskaya
Abstract: Grammatical error correction (GEC) is an important NLP task that is currently usually solved with autoregressive sequence-to-sequence models. However, approaches of this class are inherently slow due to one-by-one token generation, so non-autoregressive alternatives are needed. In this work, we propose a novel non-autoregressive approach to GEC that decouples the architecture into a permutation network that outputs a self-attention weight matrix that can be used in beam search to find the best permutation of input tokens (with auxiliary <ins> tokens) and a decoder network based on a step-unrolled denoising autoencoder that fills in specific tokens. This allows us to find the token permutation after only one forward pass of the permutation network, avoiding autoregressive constructions. We show that the resulting network improves over previously known non-autoregressive methods for GEC and reaches the level of autoregressive methods that do not use language-specific synthetic data generation methods. Our results are supported by a comprehensive experimental validation on the ConLL-2014 and BEA datasets and an extensive ablation study that supports our architectural and algorithmic choices.
Cite (Informal):GEC-DePenD: Non-Autoregressive Grammatical Error Correction with Decoupled Permutation and Decoding (Yakovlev et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.86
Bibkey:yakovlev-etal-2023-gec
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.86
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.86.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Konstantin Yakovlev, Alexander Podolskiy, Andrey Bout, Sergey Nikolenko, and Irina Piontkovskaya. 2023. GEC-DePenD: Non-Autoregressive Grammatical Error Correction with Decoupled Permutation and Decoding. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 1546–1558, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:1546–1558
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.86
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{yakovlev-etal-2023-gec,
    title = "{GEC}-{D}e{P}en{D}: Non-Autoregressive Grammatical Error Correction with Decoupled Permutation and Decoding",
    author = "Yakovlev, Konstantin  and
      Podolskiy, Alexander  and
      Bout, Andrey  and
      Nikolenko, Sergey  and
      Piontkovskaya, Irina",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.86",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.86",
    pages = "1546--1558",
    abstract = "Grammatical error correction (GEC) is an important NLP task that is currently usually solved with autoregressive sequence-to-sequence models. However, approaches of this class are inherently slow due to one-by-one token generation, so non-autoregressive alternatives are needed. In this work, we propose a novel non-autoregressive approach to GEC that decouples the architecture into a permutation network that outputs a self-attention weight matrix that can be used in beam search to find the best permutation of input tokens (with auxiliary {\textless}ins{\textgreater} tokens) and a decoder network based on a step-unrolled denoising autoencoder that fills in specific tokens. This allows us to find the token permutation after only one forward pass of the permutation network, avoiding autoregressive constructions. We show that the resulting network improves over previously known non-autoregressive methods for GEC and reaches the level of autoregressive methods that do not use language-specific synthetic data generation methods. Our results are supported by a comprehensive experimental validation on the ConLL-2014 and BEA datasets and an extensive ablation study that supports our architectural and algorithmic choices.",
}
