Title: Holographic CCG Parsing
Authors: Ryosuke Yamaki, Tadahiro Taniguchi, Daichi Mochihashi
Abstract: We propose a method for formulating CCG as a recursive composition in a continuous vector space. Recent CCG supertagging and parsing models generally demonstrate high performance, yet rely on black-box neural architectures to implicitly model phrase structure dependencies. Instead, we leverage the method of holographic embeddings as a compositional operator to explicitly model the dependencies between words and phrase structures in the embedding space. Experimental results revealed that holographic composition effectively improves the supertagging accuracy to achieve state-of-the-art parsing performance when using a C&C parser. The proposed span-based parsing algorithm using holographic composition achieves performance comparable to state-of-the-art neural parsing with Transformers. Furthermore, our model can semantically and syntactically infill text at the phrase level due to the decomposability of holographic composition.
Cite (Informal):Holographic CCG Parsing (Yamaki et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.15
Bibkey:yamaki-etal-2023-holographic
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.15
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.15.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Ryosuke Yamaki, Tadahiro Taniguchi, and Daichi Mochihashi. 2023. Holographic CCG Parsing. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 262–276, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:262–276
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.15
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{yamaki-etal-2023-holographic,
    title = "Holographic {CCG} Parsing",
    author = "Yamaki, Ryosuke  and
      Taniguchi, Tadahiro  and
      Mochihashi, Daichi",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.15",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.15",
    pages = "262--276",
    abstract = "We propose a method for formulating CCG as a recursive composition in a continuous vector space. Recent CCG supertagging and parsing models generally demonstrate high performance, yet rely on black-box neural architectures to implicitly model phrase structure dependencies. Instead, we leverage the method of holographic embeddings as a compositional operator to explicitly model the dependencies between words and phrase structures in the embedding space. Experimental results revealed that holographic composition effectively improves the supertagging accuracy to achieve state-of-the-art parsing performance when using a C{\&}C parser. The proposed span-based parsing algorithm using holographic composition achieves performance comparable to state-of-the-art neural parsing with Transformers. Furthermore, our model can semantically and syntactically infill text at the phrase level due to the decomposability of holographic composition.",
}
