Title: HyPe: Better Pre-trained Language Model Fine-tuning with Hidden Representation Perturbation
Authors: Hongyi Yuan, Zheng Yuan, Chuanqi Tan, Fei Huang, Songfang Huang
Abstract: Language models with the Transformers structure have shown great performance in natural language processing. However, there still poses problems when fine-tuning pre-trained language models on downstream tasks, such as over-fitting or representation collapse. In this work, we propose HyPe, a simple yet effective fine-tuning technique to alleviate such problems by perturbing hidden representations of Transformers layers. Unlike previous works that only add noise to inputs or parameters, we argue that the hidden representations of Transformers layers convey more diverse and meaningful language information. Therefore, making the Transformers layers more robust to hidden representation perturbations can further benefit the fine-tuning of PLMs en bloc. We conduct extensive experiments and analyses on GLUE and other natural language inference datasets. Results demonstrate that HyPe outperforms vanilla fine-tuning and enhances generalization of hidden representations from different layers. In addition, HyPe acquires negligible computational overheads, and is better than and compatible with previous state-of-the-art fine-tuning techniques.
Cite (Informal):HyPe: Better Pre-trained Language Model Fine-tuning with Hidden Representation Perturbation (Yuan et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.182
Bibkey:yuan-etal-2023-hype
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.182
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.182.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Hongyi Yuan, Zheng Yuan, Chuanqi Tan, Fei Huang, and Songfang Huang. 2023. HyPe: Better Pre-trained Language Model Fine-tuning with Hidden Representation Perturbation. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 3246–3264, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:3246–3264
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.182
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{yuan-etal-2023-hype,
    title = "{H}y{P}e: Better Pre-trained Language Model Fine-tuning with Hidden Representation Perturbation",
    author = "Yuan, Hongyi  and
      Yuan, Zheng  and
      Tan, Chuanqi  and
      Huang, Fei  and
      Huang, Songfang",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.182",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.182",
    pages = "3246--3264",
    abstract = "Language models with the Transformers structure have shown great performance in natural language processing. However, there still poses problems when fine-tuning pre-trained language models on downstream tasks, such as over-fitting or representation collapse. In this work, we propose HyPe, a simple yet effective fine-tuning technique to alleviate such problems by perturbing hidden representations of Transformers layers. Unlike previous works that only add noise to inputs or parameters, we argue that the hidden representations of Transformers layers convey more diverse and meaningful language information. Therefore, making the Transformers layers more robust to hidden representation perturbations can further benefit the fine-tuning of PLMs en bloc. We conduct extensive experiments and analyses on GLUE and other natural language inference datasets. Results demonstrate that HyPe outperforms vanilla fine-tuning and enhances generalization of hidden representations from different layers. In addition, HyPe acquires negligible computational overheads, and is better than and compatible with previous state-of-the-art fine-tuning techniques.",
}
