Title: In-Context Analogical Reasoning with Pre-Trained Language Models
Authors: Xiaoyang Hu, Shane Storks, Richard Lewis, Joyce Chai
Abstract: Analogical reasoning is a fundamental capacity of human cognition that allows us to reason abstractly about novel situations by relating them to past experiences. While it is thought to be essential for robust reasoning in AI systems, conventional approaches require significant training and/or hard-coding of domain knowledge to be applied to benchmark tasks. Inspired by cognitive science research that has found connections between human language and analogy-making, we explore the use of intuitive language-based abstractions to support analogy in AI systems. Specifically, we apply large pre-trained language models (PLMs) to visual Raven’s Progressive Matrices (RPM), a common relational reasoning test. By simply encoding the perceptual features of the problem into language form, we find that PLMs exhibit a striking capacity for zero-shot relational reasoning, exceeding human performance and nearing supervised vision-based methods. We explore different encodings that vary the level of abstraction over task features, finding that higher-level abstractions further strengthen PLMs’ analogical reasoning. Our detailed analysis reveals insights on the role of model complexity, in-context learning, and prior knowledge in solving RPM tasks.
Cite (Informal):In-Context Analogical Reasoning with Pre-Trained Language Models (Hu et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.109
Bibkey:hu-etal-2023-context
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.109
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.109.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Xiaoyang Hu, Shane Storks, Richard Lewis, and Joyce Chai. 2023. In-Context Analogical Reasoning with Pre-Trained Language Models. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 1953–1969, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:1953–1969
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.109
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{hu-etal-2023-context,
    title = "In-Context Analogical Reasoning with Pre-Trained Language Models",
    author = "Hu, Xiaoyang  and
      Storks, Shane  and
      Lewis, Richard  and
      Chai, Joyce",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.109",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.109",
    pages = "1953--1969",
    abstract = "Analogical reasoning is a fundamental capacity of human cognition that allows us to reason abstractly about novel situations by relating them to past experiences. While it is thought to be essential for robust reasoning in AI systems, conventional approaches require significant training and/or hard-coding of domain knowledge to be applied to benchmark tasks. Inspired by cognitive science research that has found connections between human language and analogy-making, we explore the use of intuitive language-based abstractions to support analogy in AI systems. Specifically, we apply large pre-trained language models (PLMs) to visual Raven{'}s Progressive Matrices (RPM), a common relational reasoning test. By simply encoding the perceptual features of the problem into language form, we find that PLMs exhibit a striking capacity for zero-shot relational reasoning, exceeding human performance and nearing supervised vision-based methods. We explore different encodings that vary the level of abstraction over task features, finding that higher-level abstractions further strengthen PLMs{'} analogical reasoning. Our detailed analysis reveals insights on the role of model complexity, in-context learning, and prior knowledge in solving RPM tasks.",
}
