Title: Knowledge of cultural moral norms in large language models
Authors: Aida Ramezani, Yang Xu
Abstract: Moral norms vary across cultures. A recent line of work suggests that English large language models contain human-like moral biases, but these studies typically do not examine moral variation in a diverse cultural setting. We investigate the extent to which monolingual English language models contain knowledge about moral norms in different countries. We consider two levels of analysis: 1) whether language models capture fine-grained moral variation across countries over a variety of topics such as “homosexuality” and “divorce”; 2) whether language models capture cultural diversity and shared tendencies in which topics people around the globe tend to diverge or agree on in their moral judgment. We perform our analyses with two public datasets from the World Values Survey (across 55 countries) and PEW global surveys (across 40 countries) on morality. We find that pre-trained English language models predict empirical moral norms across countries worse than the English moral norms reported previously. However, fine-tuning language models on the survey data improves inference across countries at the expense of a less accurate estimate of the English moral norms. We discuss the relevance and challenges of incorporating cultural knowledge into the automated inference of moral norms.
Cite (Informal):Knowledge of cultural moral norms in large language models (Ramezani & Xu, ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.26
Bibkey:ramezani-xu-2023-knowledge
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.26
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.26.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Aida Ramezani and Yang Xu. 2023. Knowledge of cultural moral norms in large language models. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 428–446, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:428–446
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.26
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{ramezani-xu-2023-knowledge,
    title = "Knowledge of cultural moral norms in large language models",
    author = "Ramezani, Aida  and
      Xu, Yang",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.26",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.26",
    pages = "428--446",
    abstract = "Moral norms vary across cultures. A recent line of work suggests that English large language models contain human-like moral biases, but these studies typically do not examine moral variation in a diverse cultural setting. We investigate the extent to which monolingual English language models contain knowledge about moral norms in different countries. We consider two levels of analysis: 1) whether language models capture fine-grained moral variation across countries over a variety of topics such as {``}homosexuality{''} and {``}divorce{''}; 2) whether language models capture cultural diversity and shared tendencies in which topics people around the globe tend to diverge or agree on in their moral judgment. We perform our analyses with two public datasets from the World Values Survey (across 55 countries) and PEW global surveys (across 40 countries) on morality. We find that pre-trained English language models predict empirical moral norms across countries worse than the English moral norms reported previously. However, fine-tuning language models on the survey data improves inference across countries at the expense of a less accurate estimate of the English moral norms. We discuss the relevance and challenges of incorporating cultural knowledge into the automated inference of moral norms.",
}
