Title: Learning Optimal Policy for Simultaneous Machine Translation via Binary Search
Authors: Shoutao Guo, Shaolei Zhang, Yang Feng
Abstract: Simultaneous machine translation (SiMT) starts to output translation while reading the source sentence and needs a precise policy to decide when to output the generated translation. Therefore, the policy determines the number of source tokens read during the translation of each target token. However, it is difficult to learn a precise translation policy to achieve good latency-quality trade-offs, because there is no golden policy corresponding to parallel sentences as explicit supervision. In this paper, we present a new method for constructing the optimal policy online via binary search. By employing explicit supervision, our approach enables the SiMT model to learn the optimal policy, which can guide the model in completing the translation during inference. Experiments on four translation tasks show that our method can exceed strong baselines across all latency scenarios.
Cite (Informal):Learning Optimal Policy for Simultaneous Machine Translation via Binary Search (Guo et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.130
Bibkey:guo-etal-2023-learning
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.130
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.130.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Shoutao Guo, Shaolei Zhang, and Yang Feng. 2023. Learning Optimal Policy for Simultaneous Machine Translation via Binary Search. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 2318–2333, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:2318–2333
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.130
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{guo-etal-2023-learning,
    title = "Learning Optimal Policy for Simultaneous Machine Translation via Binary Search",
    author = "Guo, Shoutao  and
      Zhang, Shaolei  and
      Feng, Yang",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.130",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.130",
    pages = "2318--2333",
    abstract = "Simultaneous machine translation (SiMT) starts to output translation while reading the source sentence and needs a precise policy to decide when to output the generated translation. Therefore, the policy determines the number of source tokens read during the translation of each target token. However, it is difficult to learn a precise translation policy to achieve good latency-quality trade-offs, because there is no golden policy corresponding to parallel sentences as explicit supervision. In this paper, we present a new method for constructing the optimal policy online via binary search. By employing explicit supervision, our approach enables the SiMT model to learn the optimal policy, which can guide the model in completing the translation during inference. Experiments on four translation tasks show that our method can exceed strong baselines across all latency scenarios.",
}
