Title: Locally Typical Sampling
Authors: Clara Meister, Tiago Pimentel, Gian Wiher, Ryan Cotterell
Abstract: Today’s probabilistic language generators fall short when it comes to producing coherent and fluent text despite the fact that the underlying models perform well under standard metrics (e.g., perplexity). This discrepancy has puzzled the language generation community for the last few years. In this work, we posit that the abstraction of natural language generation as a discrete stochastic process—which allows for an information-theoretic analysis—can provide new insights into the behavior of probabilistic language generators, for example, why high-probability texts can be dull or repetitive. Humans use language as a means of communicating information, aiming to do so in a simultaneously efficient and error-minimizing manner; in fact, psycholinguistics research suggests humans choose each word in a string with this subconscious goal in mind. We formally define the set of strings that meet this criterion: Those for which each word has an information content close to the expected information content, namely, the conditional entropy of our model. We then propose a simple and efficient procedure for enforcing this criterion when generating from probabilistic models, which we call locally typical sampling. Automatic and human evaluations show that, in comparison to nucleus and top-k sampling, locally typical sampling offers competitive performance (in both abstractive summarization and story generation) in terms of quality while consistently reducing degenerate repetitions.
Cite (Informal):Locally Typical Sampling (Meister et al., TACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:TACL
Anthology ID:2023.tacl-1.7
Bibkey:meister-etal-2023-locally
Volume:Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, Volume 11
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.tacl-1.7
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.tacl-1.7.pdf
Month:
SIG:
Address:Cambridge, MA
Language:
Cite (ACL):Clara Meister, Tiago Pimentel, Gian Wiher, and Ryan Cotterell. 2023. Locally Typical Sampling. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 11:102–121.
Note:
Pages:102–121
DOI:10.1162/tacl_a_00536
Publisher:MIT Press
BibTex: @article{meister-etal-2023-locally,
    title = "Locally Typical Sampling",
    author = "Meister, Clara  and
      Pimentel, Tiago  and
      Wiher, Gian  and
      Cotterell, Ryan",
    journal = "Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics",
    volume = "11",
    year = "2023",
    address = "Cambridge, MA",
    publisher = "MIT Press",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.tacl-1.7",
    doi = "10.1162/tacl_a_00536",
    pages = "102--121",
    abstract = "Today{'}s probabilistic language generators fall short when it comes to producing coherent and fluent text despite the fact that the underlying models perform well under standard metrics (e.g., perplexity). This discrepancy has puzzled the language generation community for the last few years. In this work, we posit that the abstraction of natural language generation as a discrete stochastic process{---}which allows for an information-theoretic analysis{---}can provide new insights into the behavior of probabilistic language generators, for example, why high-probability texts can be dull or repetitive. Humans use language as a means of communicating information, aiming to do so in a simultaneously efficient and error-minimizing manner; in fact, psycholinguistics research suggests humans choose each word in a string with this subconscious goal in mind. We formally define the set of strings that meet this criterion: Those for which each word has an information content close to the expected information content, namely, the conditional entropy of our model. We then propose a simple and efficient procedure for enforcing this criterion when generating from probabilistic models, which we call locally typical sampling. Automatic and human evaluations show that, in comparison to nucleus and top-k sampling, locally typical sampling offers competitive performance (in both abstractive summarization and story generation) in terms of quality while consistently reducing degenerate repetitions.",
}
