Title: MoralDial: A Framework to Train and Evaluate Moral Dialogue Systems via Moral Discussions
Authors: Hao Sun, Zhexin Zhang, Fei Mi, Yasheng Wang, Wei Liu, Jianwei Cui, Bin Wang, Qun Liu, Minlie Huang
Abstract: Morality in dialogue systems has raised great attention in research recently. A moral dialogue system aligned with users’ values could enhance conversation engagement and user connections. In this paper, we propose a framework, MoralDial to train and evaluate moral dialogue systems. In our framework, we first explore the communication mechanisms of morality and resolve expressed morality into three parts, which indicate the roadmap for building a moral dialogue system. Based on that, we design a simple yet effective method: constructing moral discussions between simulated specific users and the dialogue system. The constructed discussions consist of expressing, explaining, revising, and inferring moral views in dialogue exchanges, which makes conversational models learn morality well in a natural manner. Furthermore, we propose a novel evaluation method under the framework. We evaluate the multiple aspects of morality by judging the relation between dialogue responses and human values in discussions, where the multifaceted nature of morality is particularly considered. Automatic and manual experiments demonstrate that our framework is promising to train and evaluate moral dialogue systems.
Cite (Informal):MoralDial: A Framework to Train and Evaluate Moral Dialogue Systems via Moral Discussions (Sun et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.123
Bibkey:sun-etal-2023-moraldial
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.123
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.123.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Hao Sun, Zhexin Zhang, Fei Mi, Yasheng Wang, Wei Liu, Jianwei Cui, Bin Wang, Qun Liu, and Minlie Huang. 2023. MoralDial: A Framework to Train and Evaluate Moral Dialogue Systems via Moral Discussions. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 2213–2230, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:2213–2230
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.123
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{sun-etal-2023-moraldial,
    title = "{M}oral{D}ial: A Framework to Train and Evaluate Moral Dialogue Systems via Moral Discussions",
    author = "Sun, Hao  and
      Zhang, Zhexin  and
      Mi, Fei  and
      Wang, Yasheng  and
      Liu, Wei  and
      Cui, Jianwei  and
      Wang, Bin  and
      Liu, Qun  and
      Huang, Minlie",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.123",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.123",
    pages = "2213--2230",
    abstract = "Morality in dialogue systems has raised great attention in research recently. A moral dialogue system aligned with users{'} values could enhance conversation engagement and user connections. In this paper, we propose a framework, MoralDial to train and evaluate moral dialogue systems. In our framework, we first explore the communication mechanisms of morality and resolve expressed morality into three parts, which indicate the roadmap for building a moral dialogue system. Based on that, we design a simple yet effective method: constructing moral discussions between simulated specific users and the dialogue system. The constructed discussions consist of expressing, explaining, revising, and inferring moral views in dialogue exchanges, which makes conversational models learn morality well in a natural manner. Furthermore, we propose a novel evaluation method under the framework. We evaluate the multiple aspects of morality by judging the relation between dialogue responses and human values in discussions, where the multifaceted nature of morality is particularly considered. Automatic and manual experiments demonstrate that our framework is promising to train and evaluate moral dialogue systems.",
}
