Title: MPCHAT: Towards Multimodal Persona-Grounded Conversation
Authors: Jaewoo Ahn, Yeda Song, Sangdoo Yun, Gunhee Kim
Abstract: In order to build self-consistent personalized dialogue agents, previous research has mostly focused on textual persona that delivers personal facts or personalities. However, to fully describe the multi-faceted nature of persona, image modality can help better reveal the speaker’s personal characteristics and experiences in episodic memory (Rubin et al., 2003; Conway, 2009). In this work, we extend persona-based dialogue to the multimodal domain and make two main contributions. First, we present the first multimodal persona-based dialogue dataset named MPCHAT, which extends persona with both text and images to contain episodic memories. Second, we empirically show that incorporating multimodal persona, as measured by three proposed multimodal persona-grounded dialogue tasks (i.e., next response prediction, grounding persona prediction, and speaker identification), leads to statistically significant performance improvements across all tasks. Thus, our work highlights that multimodal persona is crucial for improving multimodal dialogue comprehension, and our MPCHAT serves as a high-quality resource for this research.
Cite (Informal):MPCHAT: Towards Multimodal Persona-Grounded Conversation (Ahn et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.189
Bibkey:ahn-etal-2023-mpchat
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.189
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.189.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Jaewoo Ahn, Yeda Song, Sangdoo Yun, and Gunhee Kim. 2023. MPCHAT: Towards Multimodal Persona-Grounded Conversation. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 3354–3377, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:3354–3377
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.189
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{ahn-etal-2023-mpchat,
    title = "{MPCHAT}: Towards Multimodal Persona-Grounded Conversation",
    author = "Ahn, Jaewoo  and
      Song, Yeda  and
      Yun, Sangdoo  and
      Kim, Gunhee",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.189",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.189",
    pages = "3354--3377",
    abstract = "In order to build self-consistent personalized dialogue agents, previous research has mostly focused on textual persona that delivers personal facts or personalities. However, to fully describe the multi-faceted nature of persona, image modality can help better reveal the speaker{'}s personal characteristics and experiences in episodic memory (Rubin et al., 2003; Conway, 2009). In this work, we extend persona-based dialogue to the multimodal domain and make two main contributions. First, we present the first multimodal persona-based dialogue dataset named MPCHAT, which extends persona with both text and images to contain episodic memories. Second, we empirically show that incorporating multimodal persona, as measured by three proposed multimodal persona-grounded dialogue tasks (i.e., next response prediction, grounding persona prediction, and speaker identification), leads to statistically significant performance improvements across all tasks. Thus, our work highlights that multimodal persona is crucial for improving multimodal dialogue comprehension, and our MPCHAT serves as a high-quality resource for this research.",
}
