Title: MS-DETR: Natural Language Video Localization with Sampling Moment-Moment Interaction
Authors: Wang Jing, Aixin Sun, Hao Zhang, Xiaoli Li
Abstract: Given a text query, the task of Natural Language Video Localization (NLVL) is to localize a temporal moment in an untrimmed video that semantically matches the query. In this paper, we adopt a proposal-based solution that generates proposals (i.e. candidate moments) and then select the best matching proposal. On top of modeling the cross-modal interaction between candidate moments and the query, our proposed Moment Sampling DETR (MS-DETR) enables efficient moment-moment relation modeling. The core idea is to sample a subset of moments guided by the learnable templates with an adopted DETR framework. To achieve this, we design a multi-scale visual-linguistic encoder, and an anchor-guided moment decoder paired with a set of learnable templates. Experimental results on three public datasets demonstrate the superior performance of MS-DETR.
Cite (Informal):MS-DETR: Natural Language Video Localization with Sampling Moment-Moment Interaction (Jing et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.77
Bibkey:jing-etal-2023-ms
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.77
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.77.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Wang Jing, Aixin Sun, Hao Zhang, and Xiaoli Li. 2023. MS-DETR: Natural Language Video Localization with Sampling Moment-Moment Interaction. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 1387–1400, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:1387–1400
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.77
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{jing-etal-2023-ms,
    title = "{MS}-{DETR}: Natural Language Video Localization with Sampling Moment-Moment Interaction",
    author = "Jing, Wang  and
      Sun, Aixin  and
      Zhang, Hao  and
      Li, Xiaoli",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.77",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.77",
    pages = "1387--1400",
    abstract = "Given a text query, the task of Natural Language Video Localization (NLVL) is to localize a temporal moment in an untrimmed video that semantically matches the query. In this paper, we adopt a proposal-based solution that generates proposals (i.e. candidate moments) and then select the best matching proposal. On top of modeling the cross-modal interaction between candidate moments and the query, our proposed Moment Sampling DETR (MS-DETR) enables efficient moment-moment relation modeling. The core idea is to sample a subset of moments guided by the learnable templates with an adopted DETR framework. To achieve this, we design a multi-scale visual-linguistic encoder, and an anchor-guided moment decoder paired with a set of learnable templates. Experimental results on three public datasets demonstrate the superior performance of MS-DETR.",
}
