Title: PREME: Preference-based Meeting Exploration through an Interactive Questionnaire
Authors: Negar Arabzadeh, Ali Ahmadvand, Julia Kiseleva, Yang Liu, Ahmed Hassan Awadallah, Ming Zhong, Milad Shokouhi
Abstract: The recent increase in the volume of online meetings necessitates automated tools for organizing the material, especially when an attendee has missed the discussion and needs assistance in quickly exploring it. In this work, we propose a novel end-to-end framework for generating interactive questionnaires for preference-based meeting exploration. As a result, users are supplied with a list of suggested questions reflecting their preferences. Since the task is new, we introduce an automatic evaluation strategy by measuring how much the generated questions via questionnaire are answerable to ensure factual correctness and covers the source meeting for the depth of possible exploration.
Cite (Informal):PREME: Preference-based Meeting Exploration through an Interactive Questionnaire (Arabzadeh et al., Findings 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:Findings
Video:https://aclanthology.org/2023.findings-eacl.25.mp4
Anthology ID:2023.findings-eacl.25
Bibkey:arabzadeh-etal-2023-preme
Volume:Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EACL 2023
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.findings-eacl.25
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.findings-eacl.25.pdf
Month:May
SIG:
Address:Dubrovnik, Croatia
Language:
Cite (ACL):Negar Arabzadeh, Ali Ahmadvand, Julia Kiseleva, Yang Liu, Ahmed Hassan Awadallah, Ming Zhong, and Milad Shokouhi. 2023. PREME: Preference-based Meeting Exploration through an Interactive Questionnaire. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EACL 2023, pages 331–342, Dubrovnik, Croatia. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Andreas Vlachos,Isabelle Augenstein
Note:
Pages:331–342
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.findings-eacl.25
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{arabzadeh-etal-2023-preme,
    title = "{PREME}: Preference-based Meeting Exploration through an Interactive Questionnaire",
    author = "Arabzadeh, Negar  and
      Ahmadvand, Ali  and
      Kiseleva, Julia  and
      Liu, Yang  and
      Awadallah, Ahmed Hassan  and
      Zhong, Ming  and
      Shokouhi, Milad",
    editor = "Vlachos, Andreas  and
      Augenstein, Isabelle",
    booktitle = "Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EACL 2023",
    month = may,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Dubrovnik, Croatia",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.findings-eacl.25",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.findings-eacl.25",
    pages = "331--342",
    abstract = "The recent increase in the volume of online meetings necessitates automated tools for organizing the material, especially when an attendee has missed the discussion and needs assistance in quickly exploring it. In this work, we propose a novel end-to-end framework for generating interactive questionnaires for preference-based meeting exploration. As a result, users are supplied with a list of suggested questions reflecting their preferences. Since the task is new, we introduce an automatic evaluation strategy by measuring how much the generated questions via questionnaire are answerable to ensure factual correctness and covers the source meeting for the depth of possible exploration.",
}
