Title: Program Chairs’ Report on Peer Review at ACL 2023
Authors: Anna Rogers, Marzena Karpinska, Jordan Boyd-Graber, Naoaki Okazaki
Abstract: We present a summary of the efforts to improve conference peer review that were implemented at ACL’23. This includes work with the goal of improving review quality, clearer workflow and decision support for the area chairs, as well as our efforts to improve paper-reviewer matching for various kinds of non- mainstream NLP work, and improve the overall incentives for all participants of the peer review process. We present analysis of the factors affecting peer review, identify the most problematic issues that the authors complained about, and provide suggestions for the future chairs. We hope that publishing such reports would (a) improve transparency in decision-making, (b) help the people new to the field to understand how the *ACL conferences work, (c) provide useful data for the future chairs and workshop organizers, and also academic work on peer review, and (d) provide useful context for the final program, as a source of information for meta-research on the structure and trajectory of the field of NLP.
Cite (Informal):Program Chairs’ Report on Peer Review at ACL 2023 (Rogers et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.911
Bibkey:rogers-etal-2023-report
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.report
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.report.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Anna Rogers, Marzena Karpinska, Jordan Boyd-Graber, and Naoaki Okazaki. 2023. Program Chairs’ Report on Peer Review at ACL 2023. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), page xl–lxxv, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:xl–lxxv
DOI:
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{rogers-etal-2023-report,
    title = "Program Chairs{'} Report on Peer Review at ACL 2023",
    author = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Karpinska, Marzena  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.report",
    pages = "xl--lxxv",
    abstract = "We present a summary of the efforts to improve conference peer review that were implemented at ACL{'}23. This includes work with the goal of improving review quality, clearer workflow and decision support for the area chairs, as well as our efforts to improve paper-reviewer matching for various kinds of non- mainstream NLP work, and improve the overall incentives for all participants of the peer review process. We present analysis of the factors affecting peer review, identify the most problematic issues that the authors complained about, and provide suggestions for the future chairs. We hope that publishing such reports would (a) improve transparency in decision-making, (b) help the people new to the field to understand how the *ACL conferences work, (c) provide useful data for the future chairs and workshop organizers, and also academic work on peer review, and (d) provide useful context for the final program, as a source of information for meta-research on the structure and trajectory of the field of NLP.",
}
