Title: Pruning Pre-trained Language Models Without Fine-Tuning
Authors: Ting Jiang, Deqing Wang, Fuzhen Zhuang, Ruobing Xie, Feng Xia
Abstract: To overcome the overparameterized problem in Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs), pruning is widely used as a simple and straightforward compression method by directly removing unimportant weights. Previous first-order methods successfully compress PLMs to extremely high sparsity with little performance drop. These methods, such as movement pruning, use first-order information to prune PLMs while fine-tuning the remaining weights. In this work, we argue fine-tuning is redundant for first-order pruning, since first-order pruning is sufficient to converge PLMs to downstream tasks without fine-tuning. Under this motivation, we propose Static Model Pruning (SMP), which only uses first-order pruning to adapt PLMs to downstream tasks while achieving the target sparsity level. In addition, we also design a new masking function and training objective to further improve SMP. Extensive experiments at various sparsity levels show SMP has significant improvements over first-order and zero-order methods. Unlike previous first-order methods, SMP is also applicable to low sparsity and outperforms zero-order methods. Meanwhile, SMP is more parameter efficient than other methods due to it does not require fine-tuning.
Cite (Informal):Pruning Pre-trained Language Models Without Fine-Tuning (Jiang et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.35
Bibkey:jiang-etal-2023-pruning
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.35
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.35.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Ting Jiang, Deqing Wang, Fuzhen Zhuang, Ruobing Xie, and Feng Xia. 2023. Pruning Pre-trained Language Models Without Fine-Tuning. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 594–605, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:594–605
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.35
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{jiang-etal-2023-pruning,
    title = "Pruning Pre-trained Language Models Without Fine-Tuning",
    author = "Jiang, Ting  and
      Wang, Deqing  and
      Zhuang, Fuzhen  and
      Xie, Ruobing  and
      Xia, Feng",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.35",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.35",
    pages = "594--605",
    abstract = "To overcome the overparameterized problem in Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs), pruning is widely used as a simple and straightforward compression method by directly removing unimportant weights. Previous first-order methods successfully compress PLMs to extremely high sparsity with little performance drop. These methods, such as movement pruning, use first-order information to prune PLMs while fine-tuning the remaining weights. In this work, we argue fine-tuning is redundant for first-order pruning, since first-order pruning is sufficient to converge PLMs to downstream tasks without fine-tuning. Under this motivation, we propose Static Model Pruning (SMP), which only uses first-order pruning to adapt PLMs to downstream tasks while achieving the target sparsity level. In addition, we also design a new masking function and training objective to further improve SMP. Extensive experiments at various sparsity levels show SMP has significant improvements over first-order and zero-order methods. Unlike previous first-order methods, SMP is also applicable to low sparsity and outperforms zero-order methods. Meanwhile, SMP is more parameter efficient than other methods due to it does not require fine-tuning.",
}
