Title: Retrieve-and-Sample: Document-level Event Argument Extraction via Hybrid Retrieval Augmentation
Authors: Yubing Ren, Yanan Cao, Ping Guo, Fang Fang, Wei Ma, Zheng Lin
Abstract: Recent studies have shown the effectiveness of retrieval augmentation in many generative NLP tasks. These retrieval-augmented methods allow models to explicitly acquire prior external knowledge in a non-parametric manner and regard the retrieved reference instances as cues to augment text generation. These methods use similarity-based retrieval, which is based on a simple hypothesis: the more the retrieved demonstration resembles the original input, the more likely the demonstration label resembles the input label. However, due to the complexity of event labels and sparsity of event arguments, this hypothesis does not always hold in document-level EAE. This raises an interesting question: How do we design the retrieval strategy for document-level EAE? We investigate various retrieval settings from the input and label distribution views in this paper. We further augment document-level EAE with pseudo demonstrations sampled from event semantic regions that can cover adequate alternatives in the same context and event schema. Through extensive experiments on RAMS and WikiEvents, we demonstrate the validity of our newly introduced retrieval-augmented methods and analyze why they work.
Cite (Informal):Retrieve-and-Sample: Document-level Event Argument Extraction via Hybrid Retrieval Augmentation (Ren et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.17
Bibkey:ren-etal-2023-retrieve
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.17
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.17.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Yubing Ren, Yanan Cao, Ping Guo, Fang Fang, Wei Ma, and Zheng Lin. 2023. Retrieve-and-Sample: Document-level Event Argument Extraction via Hybrid Retrieval Augmentation. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 293–306, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:293–306
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.17
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{ren-etal-2023-retrieve,
    title = "Retrieve-and-Sample: Document-level Event Argument Extraction via Hybrid Retrieval Augmentation",
    author = "Ren, Yubing  and
      Cao, Yanan  and
      Guo, Ping  and
      Fang, Fang  and
      Ma, Wei  and
      Lin, Zheng",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.17",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.17",
    pages = "293--306",
    abstract = "Recent studies have shown the effectiveness of retrieval augmentation in many generative NLP tasks. These retrieval-augmented methods allow models to explicitly acquire prior external knowledge in a non-parametric manner and regard the retrieved reference instances as cues to augment text generation. These methods use similarity-based retrieval, which is based on a simple hypothesis: the more the retrieved demonstration resembles the original input, the more likely the demonstration label resembles the input label. However, due to the complexity of event labels and sparsity of event arguments, this hypothesis does not always hold in document-level EAE. This raises an interesting question: How do we design the retrieval strategy for document-level EAE? We investigate various retrieval settings from the input and label distribution views in this paper. We further augment document-level EAE with pseudo demonstrations sampled from event semantic regions that can cover adequate alternatives in the same context and event schema. Through extensive experiments on RAMS and WikiEvents, we demonstrate the validity of our newly introduced retrieval-augmented methods and analyze why they work.",
}
