Title: Robust Multi-bit Natural Language Watermarking through Invariant Features
Authors: KiYoon Yoo, Wonhyuk Ahn, Jiho Jang, Nojun Kwak
Abstract: Recent years have witnessed a proliferation of valuable original natural language contents found in subscription-based media outlets, web novel platforms, and outputs of large language models. However, these contents are susceptible to illegal piracy and potential misuse without proper security measures. This calls for a secure watermarking system to guarantee copyright protection through leakage tracing or ownership identification. To effectively combat piracy and protect copyrights, a multi-bit watermarking framework should be able to embed adequate bits of information and extract the watermarks in a robust manner despite possible corruption. In this work, we explore ways to advance both payload and robustness by following a well-known proposition from image watermarking and identify features in natural language that are invariant to minor corruption. Through a systematic analysis of the possible sources of errors, we further propose a corruption-resistant infill model. Our full method improves upon the previous work on robustness by +16.8% point on average on four datasets, three corruption types, and two corruption ratios
Cite (Informal):Robust Multi-bit Natural Language Watermarking through Invariant Features (Yoo et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.117
Bibkey:yoo-etal-2023-robust
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.117
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.117.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):KiYoon Yoo, Wonhyuk Ahn, Jiho Jang, and Nojun Kwak. 2023. Robust Multi-bit Natural Language Watermarking through Invariant Features. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 2092–2115, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:2092–2115
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.117
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{yoo-etal-2023-robust,
    title = "Robust Multi-bit Natural Language Watermarking through Invariant Features",
    author = "Yoo, KiYoon  and
      Ahn, Wonhyuk  and
      Jang, Jiho  and
      Kwak, Nojun",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.117",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.117",
    pages = "2092--2115",
    abstract = "Recent years have witnessed a proliferation of valuable original natural language contents found in subscription-based media outlets, web novel platforms, and outputs of large language models. However, these contents are susceptible to illegal piracy and potential misuse without proper security measures. This calls for a secure watermarking system to guarantee copyright protection through leakage tracing or ownership identification. To effectively combat piracy and protect copyrights, a multi-bit watermarking framework should be able to embed adequate bits of information and extract the watermarks in a robust manner despite possible corruption. In this work, we explore ways to advance both payload and robustness by following a well-known proposition from image watermarking and identify features in natural language that are invariant to minor corruption. Through a systematic analysis of the possible sources of errors, we further propose a corruption-resistant infill model. Our full method improves upon the previous work on robustness by +16.8{\%} point on average on four datasets, three corruption types, and two corruption ratios",
}
