Title: Schema-Guided User Satisfaction Modeling for Task-Oriented Dialogues
Authors: Yue Feng, Yunlong Jiao, Animesh Prasad, Nikolaos Aletras, Emine Yilmaz, Gabriella Kazai
Abstract: User Satisfaction Modeling (USM) is one of the popular choices for task-oriented dialogue systems evaluation, where user satisfaction typically depends on whether the user’s task goals were fulfilled by the system. Task-oriented dialogue systems use task schema, which is a set of task attributes, to encode the user’s task goals. Existing studies on USM neglect explicitly modeling the user’s task goals fulfillment using the task schema. In this paper, we propose SG-USM, a novel schema-guided user satisfaction modeling framework. It explicitly models the degree to which the user’s preferences regarding the task attributes are fulfilled by the system for predicting the user’s satisfaction level. SG-USM employs a pre-trained language model for encoding dialogue context and task attributes. Further, it employs a fulfillment representation layer for learning how many task attributes have been fulfilled in the dialogue, an importance predictor component for calculating the importance of task attributes. Finally, it predicts the user satisfaction based on task attribute fulfillment and task attribute importance. Experimental results on benchmark datasets (i.e. MWOZ, SGD, ReDial, and JDDC) show that SG-USM consistently outperforms competitive existing methods. Our extensive analysis demonstrates that SG-USM can improve the interpretability of user satisfaction modeling, has good scalability as it can effectively deal with unseen tasks and can also effectively work in low-resource settings by leveraging unlabeled data. Code is available at https://github.com/amzn/user-satisfaction-modeling.
Cite (Informal):Schema-Guided User Satisfaction Modeling for Task-Oriented Dialogues (Feng et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.116
Bibkey:feng-etal-2023-schema
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.116
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.116.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Yue Feng, Yunlong Jiao, Animesh Prasad, Nikolaos Aletras, Emine Yilmaz, and Gabriella Kazai. 2023. Schema-Guided User Satisfaction Modeling for Task-Oriented Dialogues. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 2079–2091, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:2079–2091
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.116
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{feng-etal-2023-schema,
    title = "Schema-Guided User Satisfaction Modeling for Task-Oriented Dialogues",
    author = "Feng, Yue  and
      Jiao, Yunlong  and
      Prasad, Animesh  and
      Aletras, Nikolaos  and
      Yilmaz, Emine  and
      Kazai, Gabriella",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.116",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.116",
    pages = "2079--2091",
    abstract = "User Satisfaction Modeling (USM) is one of the popular choices for task-oriented dialogue systems evaluation, where user satisfaction typically depends on whether the user{'}s task goals were fulfilled by the system. Task-oriented dialogue systems use task schema, which is a set of task attributes, to encode the user{'}s task goals. Existing studies on USM neglect explicitly modeling the user{'}s task goals fulfillment using the task schema. In this paper, we propose SG-USM, a novel schema-guided user satisfaction modeling framework. It explicitly models the degree to which the user{'}s preferences regarding the task attributes are fulfilled by the system for predicting the user{'}s satisfaction level. SG-USM employs a pre-trained language model for encoding dialogue context and task attributes. Further, it employs a fulfillment representation layer for learning how many task attributes have been fulfilled in the dialogue, an importance predictor component for calculating the importance of task attributes. Finally, it predicts the user satisfaction based on task attribute fulfillment and task attribute importance. Experimental results on benchmark datasets (i.e. MWOZ, SGD, ReDial, and JDDC) show that SG-USM consistently outperforms competitive existing methods. Our extensive analysis demonstrates that SG-USM can improve the interpretability of user satisfaction modeling, has good scalability as it can effectively deal with unseen tasks and can also effectively work in low-resource settings by leveraging unlabeled data. Code is available at \url{https://github.com/amzn/user-satisfaction-modeling}.",
}
