Title: Small Data, Big Impact: Leveraging Minimal Data for Effective Machine Translation
Authors: Jean Maillard, Cynthia Gao, Elahe Kalbassi, Kaushik Ram Sadagopan, Vedanuj Goswami, Philipp Koehn, Angela Fan, Francisco Guzman
Abstract: For many languages, machine translation progress is hindered by the lack of reliable training data. Models are trained on whatever pre-existing datasets may be available and then augmented with synthetic data, because it is often not economical to pay for the creation of large-scale datasets. But for the case of low-resource languages, would the creation of a few thousand professionally translated sentence pairs give any benefit? In this paper, we show that it does. We describe a broad data collection effort involving around 6k professionally translated sentence pairs for each of 39 low-resource languages, which we make publicly available. We analyse the gains of models trained on this small but high-quality data, showing that it has significant impact even when larger but lower quality pre-existing corpora are used, or when data is augmented with millions of sentences through backtranslation.
Cite (Informal):Small Data, Big Impact: Leveraging Minimal Data for Effective Machine Translation (Maillard et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.154
Bibkey:maillard-etal-2023-small
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.154
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.154.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Jean Maillard, Cynthia Gao, Elahe Kalbassi, Kaushik Ram Sadagopan, Vedanuj Goswami, Philipp Koehn, Angela Fan, and Francisco Guzman. 2023. Small Data, Big Impact: Leveraging Minimal Data for Effective Machine Translation. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 2740–2756, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:2740–2756
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.154
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{maillard-etal-2023-small,
    title = "Small Data, Big Impact: Leveraging Minimal Data for Effective Machine Translation",
    author = "Maillard, Jean  and
      Gao, Cynthia  and
      Kalbassi, Elahe  and
      Sadagopan, Kaushik Ram  and
      Goswami, Vedanuj  and
      Koehn, Philipp  and
      Fan, Angela  and
      Guzman, Francisco",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.154",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.154",
    pages = "2740--2756",
    abstract = "For many languages, machine translation progress is hindered by the lack of reliable training data. Models are trained on whatever pre-existing datasets may be available and then augmented with synthetic data, because it is often not economical to pay for the creation of large-scale datasets. But for the case of low-resource languages, would the creation of a few thousand professionally translated sentence pairs give any benefit? In this paper, we show that it does. We describe a broad data collection effort involving around 6k professionally translated sentence pairs for each of 39 low-resource languages, which we make publicly available. We analyse the gains of models trained on this small but high-quality data, showing that it has significant impact even when larger but lower quality pre-existing corpora are used, or when data is augmented with millions of sentences through backtranslation.",
}
