Title: SPEECH: Structured Prediction with Energy-Based Event-Centric Hyperspheres
Authors: Shumin Deng, Shengyu Mao, Ningyu Zhang, Bryan Hooi
Abstract: Event-centric structured prediction involves predicting structured outputs of events. In most NLP cases, event structures are complex with manifold dependency, and it is challenging to effectively represent these complicated structured events. To address these issues, we propose Structured Prediction with Energy-based Event-Centric Hyperspheres (SPEECH). SPEECH models complex dependency among event structured components with energy-based modeling, and represents event classes with simple but effective hyperspheres. Experiments on two unified-annotated event datasets indicate that SPEECH is predominant in event detection and event-relation extraction tasks.
Cite (Informal):SPEECH: Structured Prediction with Energy-Based Event-Centric Hyperspheres (Deng et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.21
Bibkey:deng-etal-2023-speech
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.21
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.21.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Shumin Deng, Shengyu Mao, Ningyu Zhang, and Bryan Hooi. 2023. SPEECH: Structured Prediction with Energy-Based Event-Centric Hyperspheres. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 351–363, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:351–363
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.21
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{deng-etal-2023-speech,
    title = "{SPEECH}: Structured Prediction with Energy-Based Event-Centric Hyperspheres",
    author = "Deng, Shumin  and
      Mao, Shengyu  and
      Zhang, Ningyu  and
      Hooi, Bryan",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.21",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.21",
    pages = "351--363",
    abstract = "Event-centric structured prediction involves predicting structured outputs of events. In most NLP cases, event structures are complex with manifold dependency, and it is challenging to effectively represent these complicated structured events. To address these issues, we propose Structured Prediction with Energy-based Event-Centric Hyperspheres (SPEECH). SPEECH models complex dependency among event structured components with energy-based modeling, and represents event classes with simple but effective hyperspheres. Experiments on two unified-annotated event datasets indicate that SPEECH is predominant in event detection and event-relation extraction tasks.",
}
