Title: TECHS: Temporal Logical Graph Networks for Explainable Extrapolation Reasoning
Authors: Qika Lin, Jun Liu, Rui Mao, Fangzhi Xu, Erik Cambria
Abstract: Extrapolation reasoning on temporal knowledge graphs (TKGs) aims to forecast future facts based on past counterparts. There are two main challenges: (1) incorporating the complex information, including structural dependencies, temporal dynamics, and hidden logical rules; (2) implementing differentiable logical rule learning and reasoning for explainability. To this end, we propose an explainable extrapolation reasoning framework TEemporal logiCal grapH networkS (TECHS), which mainly contains a temporal graph encoder and a logical decoder. The former employs a graph convolutional network with temporal encoding and heterogeneous attention to embed topological structures and temporal dynamics. The latter integrates propositional reasoning and first-order reasoning by introducing a reasoning graph that iteratively expands to find the answer. A forward message-passing mechanism is also proposed to update node representations, and their propositional and first-order attention scores. Experimental results demonstrate that it outperforms state-of-the-art baselines.
Cite (Informal):TECHS: Temporal Logical Graph Networks for Explainable Extrapolation Reasoning (Lin et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.71
Bibkey:lin-etal-2023-techs
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.71
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.71.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Qika Lin, Jun Liu, Rui Mao, Fangzhi Xu, and Erik Cambria. 2023. TECHS: Temporal Logical Graph Networks for Explainable Extrapolation Reasoning. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 1281–1293, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:1281–1293
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.71
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{lin-etal-2023-techs,
    title = "{TECHS}: Temporal Logical Graph Networks for Explainable Extrapolation Reasoning",
    author = "Lin, Qika  and
      Liu, Jun  and
      Mao, Rui  and
      Xu, Fangzhi  and
      Cambria, Erik",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.71",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.71",
    pages = "1281--1293",
    abstract = "Extrapolation reasoning on temporal knowledge graphs (TKGs) aims to forecast future facts based on past counterparts. There are two main challenges: (1) incorporating the complex information, including structural dependencies, temporal dynamics, and hidden logical rules; (2) implementing differentiable logical rule learning and reasoning for explainability. To this end, we propose an explainable extrapolation reasoning framework TEemporal logiCal grapH networkS (TECHS), which mainly contains a temporal graph encoder and a logical decoder. The former employs a graph convolutional network with temporal encoding and heterogeneous attention to embed topological structures and temporal dynamics. The latter integrates propositional reasoning and first-order reasoning by introducing a reasoning graph that iteratively expands to find the answer. A forward message-passing mechanism is also proposed to update node representations, and their propositional and first-order attention scores. Experimental results demonstrate that it outperforms state-of-the-art baselines.",
}
