Title: The MineTrans Systems for IWSLT 2023 Offline Speech Translation and Speech-to-Speech Translation Tasks
Authors: Yichao Du, Guo Zhengsheng, Jinchuan Tian, Zhirui Zhang, Xing Wang, Jianwei Yu, Zhaopeng Tu, Tong Xu, Enhong Chen
Abstract: This paper presents the extscMineTrans English-to-Chinese speech translation systems developed for two challenge tracks of IWSLT 2023, i.e., Offline Speech Translation (S2T) and Speech-to-Speech Translation (S2ST). For the S2T track, extscMineTrans employs a practical cascaded system to explore the limits of translation performance in both constrained and unconstrained settings, where the whole system consists of automatic speech recognition (ASR), punctuation recognition (PC), and machine translation (MT) modules. We also investigate the effectiveness of multiple ASR architectures and explore two MT strategies: supervised in-domain fine-tuning and prompt-guided translation using a large language model. For the S2ST track, we explore a speech-to-unit (S2U) framework to build an end-to-end S2ST system. This system encodes the target speech as discrete units via our trained HuBERT. Then it leverages the standard sequence-to-sequence model to directly learn the mapping between source speech and discrete units without any auxiliary recognition tasks (i.e., ASR and MT tasks). Various efforts are made to improve the extscMineTrans’s performance, such as acoustic model pre-training on large-scale data, data filtering, data augmentation, speech segmentation, knowledge distillation, consistency training, model ensembles, etc.
Cite (Informal):The MineTrans Systems for IWSLT 2023 Offline Speech Translation and Speech-to-Speech Translation Tasks (Du et al., IWSLT 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:IWSLT
Anthology ID:2023.iwslt-1.3
Bibkey:du-etal-2023-minetrans
Volume:Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Spoken Language Translation (IWSLT 2023)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.iwslt-1.3
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.iwslt-1.3.pdf
Month:July
SIG:SIGSLT
Address:Toronto, Canada (in-person and online)
Language:
Cite (ACL):Yichao Du, Guo Zhengsheng, Jinchuan Tian, Zhirui Zhang, Xing Wang, Jianwei Yu, Zhaopeng Tu, Tong Xu, and Enhong Chen. 2023. The MineTrans Systems for IWSLT 2023 Offline Speech Translation and Speech-to-Speech Translation Tasks. In Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Spoken Language Translation (IWSLT 2023), pages 79–88, Toronto, Canada (in-person and online). Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Elizabeth Salesky,Marcello Federico,Marine Carpuat
Note:
Pages:79–88
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.iwslt-1.3
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{du-etal-2023-minetrans,
    title = "The {M}ine{T}rans Systems for {IWSLT} 2023 Offline Speech Translation and Speech-to-Speech Translation Tasks",
    author = "Du, Yichao  and
      Zhengsheng, Guo  and
      Tian, Jinchuan  and
      Zhang, Zhirui  and
      Wang, Xing  and
      Yu, Jianwei  and
      Tu, Zhaopeng  and
      Xu, Tong  and
      Chen, Enhong",
    editor = "Salesky, Elizabeth  and
      Federico, Marcello  and
      Carpuat, Marine",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Spoken Language Translation (IWSLT 2023)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada (in-person and online)",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.iwslt-1.3",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.iwslt-1.3",
    pages = "79--88",
    abstract = "This paper presents the extscMineTrans English-to-Chinese speech translation systems developed for two challenge tracks of IWSLT 2023, i.e., Offline Speech Translation (S2T) and Speech-to-Speech Translation (S2ST). For the S2T track, extscMineTrans employs a practical cascaded system to explore the limits of translation performance in both constrained and unconstrained settings, where the whole system consists of automatic speech recognition (ASR), punctuation recognition (PC), and machine translation (MT) modules. We also investigate the effectiveness of multiple ASR architectures and explore two MT strategies: supervised in-domain fine-tuning and prompt-guided translation using a large language model. For the S2ST track, we explore a speech-to-unit (S2U) framework to build an end-to-end S2ST system. This system encodes the target speech as discrete units via our trained HuBERT. Then it leverages the standard sequence-to-sequence model to directly learn the mapping between source speech and discrete units without any auxiliary recognition tasks (i.e., ASR and MT tasks). Various efforts are made to improve the extscMineTrans{'}s performance, such as acoustic model pre-training on large-scale data, data filtering, data augmentation, speech segmentation, knowledge distillation, consistency training, model ensembles, etc.",
}
