Title: Towards Understanding Chain-of-Thought Prompting: An Empirical Study of What Matters
Authors: Boshi Wang, Sewon Min, Xiang Deng, Jiaming Shen, You Wu, Luke Zettlemoyer, Huan Sun
Abstract: Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting can dramatically improve the multi-step reasoning abilities of large language models (LLMs). CoT explicitly encourages the LLM to generate intermediate rationales for solving a problem, by providing a series of reasoning steps in the demonstrations. Despite its success, there is still little understanding of what makes CoT prompting effective and which aspects of the demonstrated reasoning steps contribute to its performance. In this paper, we show that CoT reasoning is possible even with invalid demonstrations - prompting with invalid reasoning steps can achieve over 80-90% of the performance obtained using CoT under various metrics, while still generating coherent lines of reasoning during inference. Further experiments show that other aspects of the rationales, such as being relevant to the query and correctly ordering the reasoning steps, are much more important for effective CoT reasoning. Overall, these findings both deepen our understanding of CoT prompting, and open up new questions regarding LLMs’ capability to learn to reason in context.
Cite (Informal):Towards Understanding Chain-of-Thought Prompting: An Empirical Study of What Matters (Wang et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.153
Bibkey:wang-etal-2023-towards
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.153
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.153.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Boshi Wang, Sewon Min, Xiang Deng, Jiaming Shen, You Wu, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Huan Sun. 2023. Towards Understanding Chain-of-Thought Prompting: An Empirical Study of What Matters. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 2717–2739, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:2717–2739
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.153
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{wang-etal-2023-towards,
    title = "Towards Understanding Chain-of-Thought Prompting: An Empirical Study of What Matters",
    author = "Wang, Boshi  and
      Min, Sewon  and
      Deng, Xiang  and
      Shen, Jiaming  and
      Wu, You  and
      Zettlemoyer, Luke  and
      Sun, Huan",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.153",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.153",
    pages = "2717--2739",
    abstract = "Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting can dramatically improve the multi-step reasoning abilities of large language models (LLMs). CoT explicitly encourages the LLM to generate intermediate rationales for solving a problem, by providing a series of reasoning steps in the demonstrations. Despite its success, there is still little understanding of what makes CoT prompting effective and which aspects of the demonstrated reasoning steps contribute to its performance. In this paper, we show that CoT reasoning is possible even with invalid demonstrations - prompting with invalid reasoning steps can achieve over 80-90{\%} of the performance obtained using CoT under various metrics, while still generating coherent lines of reasoning during inference. Further experiments show that other aspects of the rationales, such as being relevant to the query and correctly ordering the reasoning steps, are much more important for effective CoT reasoning. Overall, these findings both deepen our understanding of CoT prompting, and open up new questions regarding LLMs{'} capability to learn to reason in context.",
}
