Title: Tracking Brand-Associated Polarity-Bearing Topics in User Reviews
Authors: Runcong Zhao, Lin Gui, Hanqi Yan, Yulan He
Abstract: Monitoring online customer reviews is important for business organizations to measure customer satisfaction and better manage their reputations. In this paper, we propose a novel dynamic Brand-Topic Model (dBTM) which is able to automatically detect and track brand-associated sentiment scores and polarity-bearing topics from product reviews organized in temporally ordered time intervals. dBTM models the evolution of the latent brand polarity scores and the topic-word distributions over time by Gaussian state space models. It also incorporates a meta learning strategy to control the update of the topic-word distribution in each time interval in order to ensure smooth topic transitions and better brand score predictions. It has been evaluated on a dataset constructed from MakeupAlley reviews and a hotel review dataset. Experimental results show that dBTM outperforms a number of competitive baselines in brand ranking, achieving a good balance of topic coherence and uniqueness, and extracting well-separated polarity-bearing topics across time intervals.1
Cite (Informal):Tracking Brand-Associated Polarity-Bearing Topics in User Reviews (Zhao et al., TACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:TACL
Anthology ID:2023.tacl-1.24
Bibkey:zhao-etal-2023-tracking
Volume:Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, Volume 11
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.tacl-1.24
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.tacl-1.24.pdf
Month:
SIG:
Address:Cambridge, MA
Language:
Cite (ACL):Runcong Zhao, Lin Gui, Hanqi Yan, and Yulan He. 2023. Tracking Brand-Associated Polarity-Bearing Topics in User Reviews. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 11:404–418.
Note:
Pages:404–418
DOI:10.1162/tacl_a_00555
Publisher:MIT Press
BibTex: @article{zhao-etal-2023-tracking,
    title = "Tracking Brand-Associated Polarity-Bearing Topics in User Reviews",
    author = "Zhao, Runcong  and
      Gui, Lin  and
      Yan, Hanqi  and
      He, Yulan",
    journal = "Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics",
    volume = "11",
    year = "2023",
    address = "Cambridge, MA",
    publisher = "MIT Press",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.tacl-1.24",
    doi = "10.1162/tacl_a_00555",
    pages = "404--418",
    abstract = "Monitoring online customer reviews is important for business organizations to measure customer satisfaction and better manage their reputations. In this paper, we propose a novel dynamic Brand-Topic Model (dBTM) which is able to automatically detect and track brand-associated sentiment scores and polarity-bearing topics from product reviews organized in temporally ordered time intervals. dBTM models the evolution of the latent brand polarity scores and the topic-word distributions over time by Gaussian state space models. It also incorporates a meta learning strategy to control the update of the topic-word distribution in each time interval in order to ensure smooth topic transitions and better brand score predictions. It has been evaluated on a dataset constructed from MakeupAlley reviews and a hotel review dataset. Experimental results show that dBTM outperforms a number of competitive baselines in brand ranking, achieving a good balance of topic coherence and uniqueness, and extracting well-separated polarity-bearing topics across time intervals.1",
}
