Title: TREA: Tree-Structure Reasoning Schema for Conversational Recommendation
Authors: Wendi Li, Wei Wei, Xiaoye Qu, Xian-Ling Mao, Ye Yuan, Wenfeng Xie, Dangyang Chen
Abstract: Conversational recommender systems (CRS) aim to timely trace the dynamic interests of users through dialogues and generate relevant responses for item recommendations. Recently, various external knowledge bases (especially knowledge graphs) are incorporated into CRS to enhance the understanding of conversation contexts. However, recent reasoning-based models heavily rely on simplified structures such as linear structures or fixed-hierarchical structures for causality reasoning, hence they cannot fully figure out sophisticated relationships among utterances with external knowledge. To address this, we propose a novel Tree structure Reasoning schEmA named TREA. TREA constructs a multi-hierarchical scalable tree as the reasoning structure to clarify the causal relationships between mentioned entities, and fully utilizes historical conversations to generate more reasonable and suitable responses for recommended results. Extensive experiments on two public CRS datasets have demonstrated the effectiveness of our approach.
Cite (Informal):TREA: Tree-Structure Reasoning Schema for Conversational Recommendation (Li et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.167
Bibkey:li-etal-2023-trea
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.167
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.167.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Wendi Li, Wei Wei, Xiaoye Qu, Xian-Ling Mao, Ye Yuan, Wenfeng Xie, and Dangyang Chen. 2023. TREA: Tree-Structure Reasoning Schema for Conversational Recommendation. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 2970–2982, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:2970–2982
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.167
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{li-etal-2023-trea,
    title = "{TREA}: Tree-Structure Reasoning Schema for Conversational Recommendation",
    author = "Li, Wendi  and
      Wei, Wei  and
      Qu, Xiaoye  and
      Mao, Xian-Ling  and
      Yuan, Ye  and
      Xie, Wenfeng  and
      Chen, Dangyang",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.167",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.167",
    pages = "2970--2982",
    abstract = "Conversational recommender systems (CRS) aim to timely trace the dynamic interests of users through dialogues and generate relevant responses for item recommendations. Recently, various external knowledge bases (especially knowledge graphs) are incorporated into CRS to enhance the understanding of conversation contexts. However, recent reasoning-based models heavily rely on simplified structures such as linear structures or fixed-hierarchical structures for causality reasoning, hence they cannot fully figure out sophisticated relationships among utterances with external knowledge. To address this, we propose a novel Tree structure Reasoning schEmA named TREA. TREA constructs a multi-hierarchical scalable tree as the reasoning structure to clarify the causal relationships between mentioned entities, and fully utilizes historical conversations to generate more reasonable and suitable responses for recommended results. Extensive experiments on two public CRS datasets have demonstrated the effectiveness of our approach.",
}
