Title: UniLG: A Unified Structure-aware Framework for Lyrics Generation
Authors: Tao Qian, Fan Lou, Jiatong Shi, Yuning Wu, Shuai Guo, Xiang Yin, Qin Jin
Abstract: As a special task of natural language generation, conditional lyrics generation needs to consider the structure of generated lyrics and the relationship between lyrics and music. Due to various forms of conditions, a lyrics generation system is expected to generate lyrics conditioned on different signals, such as music scores, music audio, or partially-finished lyrics, etc. However, most of the previous works have ignored the musical attributes hidden behind the lyrics and the structure of the lyrics. Additionally, most works only handle limited lyrics generation conditions, such as lyrics generation based on music score or partial lyrics, they can not be easily extended to other generation conditions with the same framework. In this paper, we propose a unified structure-aware lyrics generation framework named UniLG. Specifically, we design compound templates that incorporate textual and musical information to improve structure modeling and unify the different lyrics generation conditions. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework. Both objective and subjective evaluations show significant improvements in generating structural lyrics.
Cite (Informal):UniLG: A Unified Structure-aware Framework for Lyrics Generation (Qian et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.56
Bibkey:qian-etal-2023-unilg
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.56
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.56.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Tao Qian, Fan Lou, Jiatong Shi, Yuning Wu, Shuai Guo, Xiang Yin, and Qin Jin. 2023. UniLG: A Unified Structure-aware Framework for Lyrics Generation. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 983–1001, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:983–1001
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.56
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{qian-etal-2023-unilg,
    title = "{U}ni{LG}: A Unified Structure-aware Framework for Lyrics Generation",
    author = "Qian, Tao  and
      Lou, Fan  and
      Shi, Jiatong  and
      Wu, Yuning  and
      Guo, Shuai  and
      Yin, Xiang  and
      Jin, Qin",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.56",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.56",
    pages = "983--1001",
    abstract = "As a special task of natural language generation, conditional lyrics generation needs to consider the structure of generated lyrics and the relationship between lyrics and music. Due to various forms of conditions, a lyrics generation system is expected to generate lyrics conditioned on different signals, such as music scores, music audio, or partially-finished lyrics, etc. However, most of the previous works have ignored the musical attributes hidden behind the lyrics and the structure of the lyrics. Additionally, most works only handle limited lyrics generation conditions, such as lyrics generation based on music score or partial lyrics, they can not be easily extended to other generation conditions with the same framework. In this paper, we propose a unified structure-aware lyrics generation framework named UniLG. Specifically, we design compound templates that incorporate textual and musical information to improve structure modeling and unify the different lyrics generation conditions. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework. Both objective and subjective evaluations show significant improvements in generating structural lyrics.",
}
