Title: UScore: An Effective Approach to Fully Unsupervised Evaluation Metrics for Machine Translation
Authors: Jonas Belouadi, Steffen Eger
Abstract: The vast majority of evaluation metrics for machine translation are supervised, i.e., (i) are trained on human scores, (ii) assume the existence of reference translations, or (iii) leverage parallel data. This hinders their applicability to cases where such supervision signals are not available. In this work, we develop fully unsupervised evaluation metrics. To do so, we leverage similarities and synergies between evaluation metric induction, parallel corpus mining, and MT systems. In particular, we use an unsupervised evaluation metric to mine pseudo-parallel data, which we use to remap deficient underlying vector spaces (in an iterative manner) and to induce an unsupervised MT system, which then provides pseudo-references as an additional component in the metric. Finally, we also induce unsupervised multilingual sentence embeddings from pseudo-parallel data. We show that our fully unsupervised metrics are effective, i.e., they beat supervised competitors on 4 out of our 5 evaluation datasets. We make our code publicly available.
Cite (Informal):UScore: An Effective Approach to Fully Unsupervised Evaluation Metrics for Machine Translation (Belouadi & Eger, EACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:EACL
Video:https://aclanthology.org/2023.eacl-main.27.mp4
Anthology ID:2023.eacl-main.27
Bibkey:belouadi-eger-2023-uscore
Software:2023.eacl-main.27.software.zip
Volume:Proceedings of the 17th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.eacl-main.27
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.eacl-main.27.pdf
Month:May
SIG:
Address:Dubrovnik, Croatia
Language:
Cite (ACL):Jonas Belouadi and Steffen Eger. 2023. UScore: An Effective Approach to Fully Unsupervised Evaluation Metrics for Machine Translation. In Proceedings of the 17th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 358–374, Dubrovnik, Croatia. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Andreas Vlachos,Isabelle Augenstein
Note:
Award:EACL Outstanding Paper
Pages:358–374
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.eacl-main.27
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{belouadi-eger-2023-uscore,
    title = "{US}core: An Effective Approach to Fully Unsupervised Evaluation Metrics for Machine Translation",
    author = "Belouadi, Jonas  and
      Eger, Steffen",
    editor = "Vlachos, Andreas  and
      Augenstein, Isabelle",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 17th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics",
    month = may,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Dubrovnik, Croatia",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.eacl-main.27",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.eacl-main.27",
    pages = "358--374",
    abstract = "The vast majority of evaluation metrics for machine translation are supervised, i.e., (i) are trained on human scores, (ii) assume the existence of reference translations, or (iii) leverage parallel data. This hinders their applicability to cases where such supervision signals are not available. In this work, we develop fully unsupervised evaluation metrics. To do so, we leverage similarities and synergies between evaluation metric induction, parallel corpus mining, and MT systems. In particular, we use an unsupervised evaluation metric to mine pseudo-parallel data, which we use to remap deficient underlying vector spaces (in an iterative manner) and to induce an unsupervised MT system, which then provides pseudo-references as an additional component in the metric. Finally, we also induce unsupervised multilingual sentence embeddings from pseudo-parallel data. We show that our fully unsupervised metrics are effective, i.e., they beat supervised competitors on 4 out of our 5 evaluation datasets. We make our code publicly available.",
}
