Title: Visualize Before You Write: Imagination-Guided Open-Ended Text Generation
Authors: Wanrong Zhu, An Yan, Yujie Lu, Wenda Xu, Xin Wang, Miguel Eckstein, William Yang Wang
Abstract: Recent advances in text-to-image synthesis make it possible to visualize machine imaginations for a given context. On the other hand, when generating text, human writers are gifted at creative visualization, which enhances their writings by forming imaginations as blueprints before putting down the stories in words. Inspired by such a cognitive process, we ask the natural question of whether we can endow machines with the same ability to utilize visual information and construct a general picture of the context to guide text generation. In this work, we propose iNLG that uses machine-generated images to guide language models (LM) in open-ended text generation. The experiments and analyses demonstrate the effectiveness of iNLG on open-ended text generation tasks, including text completion, story generation, and concept-to-text generation in both few-shot and full-data scenarios. Both automatic metrics and human evaluations verify that the text snippets generated by our iNLG are coherent and informative while displaying minor degeneration.
Cite (Informal):Visualize Before You Write: Imagination-Guided Open-Ended Text Generation (Zhu et al., Findings 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:Findings
Video:https://aclanthology.org/2023.findings-eacl.5.mp4
Anthology ID:2023.findings-eacl.5
Bibkey:zhu-etal-2023-visualize
Volume:Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EACL 2023
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.findings-eacl.5
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.findings-eacl.5.pdf
Month:May
SIG:
Address:Dubrovnik, Croatia
Language:
Cite (ACL):Wanrong Zhu, An Yan, Yujie Lu, Wenda Xu, Xin Wang, Miguel Eckstein, and William Yang Wang. 2023. Visualize Before You Write: Imagination-Guided Open-Ended Text Generation. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EACL 2023, pages 78–92, Dubrovnik, Croatia. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Andreas Vlachos,Isabelle Augenstein
Note:
Pages:78–92
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.findings-eacl.5
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{zhu-etal-2023-visualize,
    title = "Visualize Before You Write: Imagination-Guided Open-Ended Text Generation",
    author = "Zhu, Wanrong  and
      Yan, An  and
      Lu, Yujie  and
      Xu, Wenda  and
      Wang, Xin  and
      Eckstein, Miguel  and
      Wang, William Yang",
    editor = "Vlachos, Andreas  and
      Augenstein, Isabelle",
    booktitle = "Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EACL 2023",
    month = may,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Dubrovnik, Croatia",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.findings-eacl.5",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.findings-eacl.5",
    pages = "78--92",
    abstract = "Recent advances in text-to-image synthesis make it possible to visualize machine imaginations for a given context. On the other hand, when generating text, human writers are gifted at creative visualization, which enhances their writings by forming imaginations as blueprints before putting down the stories in words. Inspired by such a cognitive process, we ask the natural question of whether we can endow machines with the same ability to utilize visual information and construct a general picture of the context to guide text generation. In this work, we propose iNLG that uses machine-generated images to guide language models (LM) in open-ended text generation. The experiments and analyses demonstrate the effectiveness of iNLG on open-ended text generation tasks, including text completion, story generation, and concept-to-text generation in both few-shot and full-data scenarios. Both automatic metrics and human evaluations verify that the text snippets generated by our iNLG are coherent and informative while displaying minor degeneration.",
}
