Title: We Understand Elliptical Sentences, and Language Models should Too: A New Dataset for Studying Ellipsis and its Interaction with Thematic Fit
Authors: Davide Testa, Emmanuele Chersoni, Alessandro Lenci
Abstract: Ellipsis is a linguistic phenomenon characterized by the omission of one or more sentence elements. Solving such a linguistic construction is not a trivial issue in natural language processing since it involves the retrieval of non-overtly expressed verbal material, which might in turn require the model to integrate human-like syntactic and semantic knowledge. In this paper, we explored the issue of how the prototypicality of event participants affects the ability of Language Models (LMs) to handle elliptical sentences and to identify the omitted arguments at different degrees of thematic fit, ranging from highly typical participants to semantically anomalous ones. With this purpose in mind, we built ELLie, the first dataset composed entirely of utterances containing different types of elliptical constructions, and structurally suited for evaluating the effect of argument thematic fit in solving ellipsis and reconstructing the missing element. Our tests demonstrated that the probability scores assigned by the models are higher for typical events than for atypical and impossible ones in different elliptical contexts, confirming the influence of prototypicality of the event participants in interpreting such linguistic structures. Finally, we conducted a retrieval task of the elided verb in the sentence in which the low performance of LMs highlighted a considerable difficulty in reconstructing the correct event.
Cite (Informal):We Understand Elliptical Sentences, and Language Models should Too: A New Dataset for Studying Ellipsis and its Interaction with Thematic Fit (Testa et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.188
Bibkey:testa-etal-2023-understand
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.188
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.188.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Davide Testa, Emmanuele Chersoni, and Alessandro Lenci. 2023. We Understand Elliptical Sentences, and Language Models should Too: A New Dataset for Studying Ellipsis and its Interaction with Thematic Fit. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 3340–3353, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:3340–3353
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.188
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{testa-etal-2023-understand,
    title = "We Understand Elliptical Sentences, and Language Models should Too: A New Dataset for Studying Ellipsis and its Interaction with Thematic Fit",
    author = "Testa, Davide  and
      Chersoni, Emmanuele  and
      Lenci, Alessandro",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.188",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.188",
    pages = "3340--3353",
    abstract = "Ellipsis is a linguistic phenomenon characterized by the omission of one or more sentence elements. Solving such a linguistic construction is not a trivial issue in natural language processing since it involves the retrieval of non-overtly expressed verbal material, which might in turn require the model to integrate human-like syntactic and semantic knowledge. In this paper, we explored the issue of how the prototypicality of event participants affects the ability of Language Models (LMs) to handle elliptical sentences and to identify the omitted arguments at different degrees of thematic fit, ranging from highly typical participants to semantically anomalous ones. With this purpose in mind, we built ELLie, the first dataset composed entirely of utterances containing different types of elliptical constructions, and structurally suited for evaluating the effect of argument thematic fit in solving ellipsis and reconstructing the missing element. Our tests demonstrated that the probability scores assigned by the models are higher for typical events than for atypical and impossible ones in different elliptical contexts, confirming the influence of prototypicality of the event participants in interpreting such linguistic structures. Finally, we conducted a retrieval task of the elided verb in the sentence in which the low performance of LMs highlighted a considerable difficulty in reconstructing the correct event.",
}
