Title: Z-ICL: Zero-Shot In-Context Learning with Pseudo-Demonstrations
Authors: Xinxi Lyu, Sewon Min, Iz Beltagy, Luke Zettlemoyer, Hannaneh Hajishirzi
Abstract: Although large language models can be prompted for both zero- and few-shot learning, performance drops significantly when no demonstrations are available. In this paper, we introduce Z-ICL, a new zero-shot method that closes the gap by constructing pseudo-demonstrations for a given test input using a raw text corpus. Concretely, pseudo-demonstrations are constructed by (1) finding the nearest neighbors to the test input from the corpus and pairing them with random task labels, and (2) applying a set of techniques to reduce the amount of direct copying the model does from the resulting demonstrations. Evaluation on nine classification datasets shows that Z-ICL outperforms previous zero-shot methods by a significant margin, and is on par with in-context learning with labeled training data in the few-shot setting. Overall, Z-ICL provides a significantly higher estimate of the zero-shot performance levels of a model, and supports future efforts to develop better pseudo-demonstrations that further improve zero-shot results.
Cite (Informal):Z-ICL: Zero-Shot In-Context Learning with Pseudo-Demonstrations (Lyu et al., ACL 2023)
Year:2023
Venue:ACL
Anthology ID:2023.acl-long.129
Bibkey:lyu-etal-2023-z
Volume:Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)
URL:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.129
PDF:https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.129.pdf
Month:July
SIG:
Address:Toronto, Canada
Language:
Cite (ACL):Xinxi Lyu, Sewon Min, Iz Beltagy, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2023. Z-ICL: Zero-Shot In-Context Learning with Pseudo-Demonstrations. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 2304–2317, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Editors:Anna Rogers,Jordan Boyd-Graber,Naoaki Okazaki
Note:
Pages:2304–2317
DOI:10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.129
Publisher:Association for Computational Linguistics
BibTex: @inproceedings{lyu-etal-2023-z,
    title = "{Z}-{ICL}: Zero-Shot In-Context Learning with Pseudo-Demonstrations",
    author = "Lyu, Xinxi  and
      Min, Sewon  and
      Beltagy, Iz  and
      Zettlemoyer, Luke  and
      Hajishirzi, Hannaneh",
    editor = "Rogers, Anna  and
      Boyd-Graber, Jordan  and
      Okazaki, Naoaki",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = jul,
    year = "2023",
    address = "Toronto, Canada",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.129",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.129",
    pages = "2304--2317",
    abstract = "Although large language models can be prompted for both zero- and few-shot learning, performance drops significantly when no demonstrations are available. In this paper, we introduce Z-ICL, a new zero-shot method that closes the gap by constructing pseudo-demonstrations for a given test input using a raw text corpus. Concretely, pseudo-demonstrations are constructed by (1) finding the nearest neighbors to the test input from the corpus and pairing them with random task labels, and (2) applying a set of techniques to reduce the amount of direct copying the model does from the resulting demonstrations. Evaluation on nine classification datasets shows that Z-ICL outperforms previous zero-shot methods by a significant margin, and is on par with in-context learning with labeled training data in the few-shot setting. Overall, Z-ICL provides a significantly higher estimate of the zero-shot performance levels of a model, and supports future efforts to develop better pseudo-demonstrations that further improve zero-shot results.",
}
